1 THE MARITIME TRANSPORT ACT, NO.
5 OF 2006  THE PORT RECEPTION FACILITY FOR SHIP -GENERATED WASTES AND CARGO RESIDUES REGULATIONS  ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS REGULATIONS TITLE PART ONE PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS 1.
Short title and commencement 2.
Interpretation 3.
Application 4.
Control and enforcement 5.
Appointment of Authorized Officers 6.
Powers of the Authorized Officers PART TWO INSTALLATION, FUNDING AND REQUIREMENTS OF PORT WASTE RECEPTI ON FACILITY 7.
Installation of a port waste reception facility 8.
Type of waste to be handled by waste reception facility 9.
Funding and cost recovery for port waste reception facilities 10.
Requirements regarding waste management plans 11.
Submission and approval of waste management plan 2 12.
Power of the Authority to prepare a waste management plan 13.
Direction to implement a waste management plan PART THREE OPERATION OF WASTE RECEPTION FACILITY 14.
Notification 15.
Duties of ships carrying ship -generated waste.
Dutie s of ships carrying cargo residues.
Exemptions for certain ships.
Investigation .
Duty of Port or terminal operator to submit an annual report to the Authority PART FOUR PENALTIES 20.
Penalties under Part One 21.
Penalties under Part Two 22.
Penalties under Part three 23.
Compounding of offences SCHEDULE 3 THE MARITIME TRANSPORT ACT, NO.
5 OF 2006  THE PORT RECEPTION FACILITY FOR SHIP -GENERATED WASTES AND CARGO RESIDUES REGULATIONS Made under section 286 and 287  IN EXERCISE of powers conferred upon me under section s 286 and 287 of the Maritime Transport Act , No.
5 of 2006 , I, DR.
SIRA UBWA MAMBOYA, Minister responsible for maritime transport affairs, do hereby makes the Port Re ception Facility for Ship -Generated Wastes and Cargo Residues Regulations as follows PART ONE PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS Short title and commencement 1.
These R egulations may be cited as the Port Reception Facility for Ship - Generated Wastes and Carg o Residues Regulations 2018, and shall come into operation after being signed by M inister and published in Official Gaz ette.
Interpretation 2.
In these Regulations, unless the context requires otherwise Act means the Maritime Transport Act No.
5 of 2006 Authority means the Zanzibar Maritime Authority established under the Zanzibar Maritime Authority Act , No.
3 of 2009 bilge means compartments where leaking water and oily wastewaters from machine and auxiliary under tanks, cofferdams, re positories and similar compartments of ships accumulate bilge water means liquids accumulating in the bilge authorised officer means the following (a) a person appointed under r egulation 5(1) of these Regulations and 4 (b) a member of the KMKM holding commissioned rank, while in uniform .
cargo residues means the remnants of any cargo material on board in cargo holds or tanks which remain after unloading and cleaning operations are completed  MARPOL 73/78 means the International Convention for th e Prevention of Pollution from Ships as amended  Director General means the Director General of the Authority as appointed under the Zanzibar Maritime Authority Act, No.
3 of 2009 dollar means a currency of the United States of America effluent means wastes from toile ts, urinals and toilet scuppers, liquid wastes from washbasins, scuppers and washing tubs in infirmaries, dispensaries and hospitals, flows from places where livestock is kept or other waste waters mixing there with fishing vessel  means a ve ssel for the time being used or intended to be used, for or in connection with fishing other than a vessel used or intended to be used for fishing otherwise than for profit or a vessel for the time being used or intended to be used wholly for th e purpose of conveying persons wishing to fish for pleasure garbage mean s domestic and operational solid wastes produced as a result of the normal operation of ships and within th e scope of MARPOL 73/78 ANNEX -V master, in relation to a ship, means the person (excluding, where appropriate, a pilot having, for the time being, the command or charge of the ship Minister means the M inister responsible for maritime affairs  Organization means the International Maritime Organization passenger sh ip means a ship which carries more than twelve passengers port authority means - 5 (a) in the case of a port to which the Z anzibar Port Corporation Act 1997 apply, a port within the meaning of that Act and (b) in the case of any other port, the owner or operator of that port  recreational craft means a ship of any type, regardless of the means of propulsion, intended for sports or leisure purposes sewage means one or more of the following (a) drainage and other wastes from any form of toilets an d urinals (b) drainage from medical premises including dispensary and sick bay via wash basins, wash tubs, and scuppers located in such premises (c) drainage from spaces containing living animals and (d) other waste waters when mixed with the drainages to which subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) or any of them relate  Shipyard means locations where the ships are maintained and repaired and pooled Slop means oily water residues accumulating in the slop tanks, including tank washing waters, as a result of wash ing of the cargo tanks in ships Sludge means mud formed from deposits and/or oil sediments in the engine rooms, fuel tanks of ships or cargo tanks of petroleum tankers terminal means a place where ships are moored, berthed or docked to obtai n services such as handling of cargo or passengers, repairs, waste removal, bunkering, laid -up and any other services related to ships and maritime activities Toxic Liquid Substance means, as described and listed in MARPOL 73/78 ANNEX -II, toxic liquid substances which fall into one of the categories A, B, C or D Toxic Liquid Substance Waste means liquid smeared through toxic liquid substances, as a result of washing of tanks after discharging of these substances from the ship 6 Waste means petroleu m and petroleum -derived solid and liquid wastes within the scope of MARPOL 73/78 ANNEX -I which are produced as a result of regular activities of ships (bilge water, polluted ballast, sludge, slop, oil, etc.), toxic liquid substance wastes within the scope of MARPOL 73/78 ANNEX -II, effluents within the scope of MARPOL 73/78 ANNEX -IV and garbage wastes within the scope of MARPOL 73/78 ANNEX -V Waste Reception Facility mean s waste reception facilities established for the purposes of receiving and temporary storage of ship -generated wastes and wastes c arried by waste reception ships.
Application 3.-(1) These Regulations shall apply to  (a) Zanzibar port  (b) all ships including fishing vessels and recreational craft, irrespective of their flag, calli ng at Zanzibar port .
(2) These Regulations shall not apply to the following vessels calling at Zanzibar port (a) war ships and Naval auxiliaries  (b) Government ships not engaged in commercial services (c) native vessels propelled by non -mechanical me ans and (d) any other vessel that may be exempted by the Minister.
(3) Masters of ships that is exempted from the application of these Regulations under sub regulation (2) of this regulation shall deliver their ship - generated waste and cargo residues i n a manner consistent, in so far a s is reasonable and practicable with these Regulations .
Control and enforcement 4.-(1) The Authority shall ensure that all ships are inspect ed in order to verify that they compl y with the provisions of these R egulatio ns.
(2) Where the Authority becomes aware or has reasons to believe that the master or owner of a ship has not complied with the provisions of regulations 13, 14 and 1 5, or considers that there are reasons of believing that the declaration made unde r the Second Schedule to these Regulations does not correspond substantially with the state of the ship, shall order inspection of the ship by an Authorised Officers .
7 (3) The Authority may detain a ship in the port if the master or owner failed to deliver the ship-generated wastes or cargo res idues in accordance with these Regulations until the ship properly compl y with the provisions of these Regulations.
(4) Where there is clear evidence that a ship has proceeded to sea without having compli ed with 14(1) or 1 5 of these Regulations , the Authority shall, if the next port of call of the ship is a port of another member State, inform the competent authority of the State in which the port is situated about the ship and the evidence.
(5) Whe re the Authority has been informed by the competent authority of another S tate of a ship in respect of which there is clear evidence of the type mentioned in sub regulation (2) of this regulation , the Authority shall order inspection of the ship by an Auth orised Officers at the earliest opportunity.
(6) The Authority shall not in the exercise of its power under this regulation detain or delay the ship without any justifiable reason .
Appointment of Authorized Officers 5.
The Authority shall appo int Authorised Officers for the purpose of verifying compliance of a ship with the provisions of these Regulations .
Power s of the Authorized Officers 6.-(1) Subject to sub regulation (1) of this regulation an Authorised Officer may, at any time by a ny ship to which these Regulations apply, have the following powers  (a) stop and board any ship in port or otherwise within territorial waters and carry out such examination and inspection of the entire ship as he or she thinks fit (b) take away samples of any thing found on board which in the opinion of the authorised officer, is ship -generated waste for the purpose of analysis (c) require a person on the ship to provide information regarding the ships waste or cargo residues (d) cause to be recorded by any means any part of or thing on the ship (e) inspect and take away documents or copies of electronic 8 information.
(3) A person who - (a) without reasonable excuse fails to comply with any request or requirement made by an Authorised Officer under this r egulation  (b) obstructs or interferes an Authorised Officer in the exercise of his powers under this regulation or (c) gives an authorised officer false or misleading information, commits an offence.
PART TWO INSTALLATION , FUNDING AND REQUIREMENTS OF PORT WASTE REC EPTION FACILITY Installation of a port waste reception facility 7.-(1) A person shall not build, install or operate any facility in any place in Zanzibar for the purpose of the port waste r eception facility required under the Convention or for the pu rpose to meet n ational requirements unless obtain written permission from the Authority .
(2) The Authority shall not permit any person to build or install any facility unless the person possess an environmental assessment report from Zanzibar Environmen tal Management Authority.
(3) Port Authority shall provide waste reception facilities adequate to meet the needs of ships normally using the port or terminal in question without causing undue delay to ships.
(4) Port authority for the purpos e of these regulations shall allocate a land easily accessible and securable in the port area for the instalment of the port waste reception facility .
(5) The port waste reception facility shall be owned wholly by port authority and may be installe d and operated by competent individual person or company on contractual basis .
(6) For the purpose of this regulation adequate means capable of receiving the types and quantities of prescribed wastes from ships normally 9 using that port or terminal t aking into account the operational needs of the users of the port or terminal, its size and geographical location, the types of ships calling there and any exemptions provided for under regulation 1 6 of these Regulations .
(7) Subject to Sub regulation ( 1) of this regulation, i n every port there shall be only one authorised operator for the operation of waste reception facility or for the purpose of collection, treatment transportation and disposing generated ship wastes.
(8) Any person who contra venes with the provisions of this regulation shall be guilty of an offence.
Type of waste to be handled by waste reception facility 8.-(1) The port waste reception facilities i nstalled under regulation 7 of these Regulations shall be capable to receive at least the following type of waste - (a) oils, oil mixtures and s hip bilges (b) cargo residues (c) plastics and glasses materials (d) garbage (e) sewage and effluents (f) toxic liquid substance waste  and (g) any other type of waste of the relating to any of the above nature.
(2) It is prohibited to deliver and receive to ports any waste other than the wastes specified in this regulation, without the prior permit of the Authority.
(3) Any person who contrave ne with the provisions of this r egulation commits an offence.
Funding and cost recovery for port waste reception 9.-(1) A port or terminal o perator shall ensure that establishment and daily running costs of waste reception facilities are covered by means of a due collection of a fee fro m ships.
10 facilities Requirements regarding waste management plans 10.-(1) A port or terminal operator shall prepare a waste management plan with respect to the provision and use of port reception facilities in consultation with all stakeholders and submit to the Authority for approval.
(2) A waste management plan prepared under this regulation shall comply with the requirements as prescribed in the First Schedule to these Regulations.
Submission and approval of waste management plan 11.-(1) Subject to sub regulation (5) of this regulation, a port or terminal operator shall submit its first waste m anagement plan to the Authority for approval in accordance with sub regulation (1) within six months from the comin g into force of these regulations .
(2) A port operator for a new port or a terminal shall submit a waste management plan to the Authority for approval in accordance with sub regulation (1), within three months from its first day of operation.
(3) A port or terminal operator shall submit subsequent waste management plans to the Authority for approval in accordance with sub regulation (1) - (a) within nine months of any significant change to the operation of the port or terminal since the most recent waste ma nagement plan was approved by the Authority pursuant to sub regulation (8) or prepared by him pursuant to sub regulation (6) or (b) no later than three years after the most recent plan was approved by the Authority pursuant to sub regulation (7) or prepared by him pursuant to sub regulation (6), whichever is the sooner.
(4) The Authority may approve the waste management plan or request modifications thereto and a modified plan to be submitted within a date as directed by the Authority.
(5) A waste management plan that has been approved by the Authority shall be implemented by the port or the terminal operator for the port or terminal to which the plan relates.
11 Power of the Authority to prepare a waste management plan 12.
If the Authority is satisfied that a person who is required to prepare a waste management plan is not taking any steps necessary in connection with the preparation of the plan the Authority may, in consultation with all stakeholders, prepare such a plan.
Direct ion to implement a waste management plan 13.-(1) The Authority may direct a port or terminal operator to take such steps as are specified for the purposes of ensuring the implementation of a waste management plan.
(2) If a port or terminal operato r fails to implement an approved waste management plan as directed by the authority under these regulation shall be guilty on offence .
PART THREE OPERATION OF WASTE RECEPTION FACILITY Notification 14.-(1) A master of a ship that is bound for a port l ocated in Zanzibar shall complete the form set out as shown in the Second Schedule to these regulations and notify that information to authority  (a) at least 24 hours prior to arriva l, if the port of call is known (b) as soon as the port of call is known, if th is information is available less than 24 hours prior to arrival or (c) at the latest upon departure from the previous port, if the duration of the voyage is less than 24 hours.
(2) A master of the ship shall keep on board the information referred to in sub regulation (2) of this regulation at least until the next port of call and shall upon request by a port authority or terminal operator give the form duly completed to the port authority or terminal operator .
(3) A master of a ship who fails to comply with sub regulation (2) or (3) of this regulation shall be guilty of an offence .
(4) The authority shall keep the information received by it under this Regulation  (a) in such format as the Minister may from time to time direct  and (b) for at least three years or for such longer period as the Ministe r may from time to time specify , and shall forward a copy thereof and furnish information in relation thereto to the Authority on request.
12 Duties of ships carrying ship - generated waste.
15.-(1) The master of a ship calling at a port or terminal within Zanzibar shall be required to deliver all ship -generated waste to the waste reception facility before leaving the port .
(2) Notwithstanding with sub regulation (1) of this regulation, a ship may proceed to the next port of call without delivering the ship -generated waste, if there is sufficient dedicated storage capacity for all ship -generated waste that has accumulated and will accumulate during the intended voyage of the ship until the intended port of delivery .
(3) If in the opinion of the p ort or terminal operator there is a risk that the waste will be discharged at sea because - (a) adequate facilities are not available at the intend ed port of delivery of the shi p or (b) the intended port of delivery is unknown to the authority, the port or terminal operator, having consulted with the Authority, shall take all necessary measures to prevent marine pollution, including by requiring the master of the ship to deliver its waste to the relevant waste reception facility before its departure from the port, but i f the ship is at sea the requirement may be made to proceed to a designated port to deliver its waste.
(4) A master of a ship who contravene with the prov isions of this Regulation commits an offence.
(5) Subject to the provisions of this regulation, any person who - (a) without reasonable excuse fails to comply with any request or requirement made by an Authorised officer  or (b) obstr ucts or interferes with an Authorised officer in the exercise of his duties or (c) gives an authorised officer false or misleading information , commits an offence.
Duties of ships carrying cargo 16.-(1) A master of a ship calling at a port or terminal within Zanzibar shall deliver all cargo residues to a waste reception facility in accordance with t he 13 residues.
provisions of the Convention (2) A master of a Non -Convention ship calling at a port or terminal within Zanzibar shall deliver all cargo residues to a waste reception facility in accordance with the provisions of the port regulations or national requirements .
(3) A master of a ship who contravene with the provisions of this Regulation commits an offence.
(4) Subject to t he provisions of this regulation , any person who - (a) without reasonable excuse fails to comply with any request or requirement made by an Authorised Office r or (b) obstructs or interferes with an Authorised Officer in the exercise of his duti es or (c) gives an authorised officer false or misleading information , commits an offence.
Exemptions for certain ships.
Where a Port Authority or terminal is satisfied that a ship - (a) is engaged in scheduled traffic with frequent and regular port calls and (b) has an arrangement to - (i) deliver its ship generated waste and (ii) pay its fees in a port along its route , the port or terminal operator may, with the approval of the Minister, grant an exemption to that ship from the obligations contained in regulations 8(3), 14(1), and 15, or any of them, on such terms as the port or terminal operator may consider appropriate.
(2) The port or terminal operator shall ensure that the request of approval for the proposed exemption under sub regulation (1) shall be made in consultation with the Authority.
14 Investigation.
18.-(1) The Authority shall appoint any person to examine, investigate or inspect a port or terminal, or an authorized port reception facility or any relevant document .
(2) A person appointed by the Authority to carry out such functions shall have power to - (a) board freely, and without previous notice, a ship at any place and at any time of day or night (b) enter into freely, and without previous notice, any port or terminal operators premises or building at any place and at any time of day or night (c) request the assistance of a member of the Police force in the execution of his duties (d) question any person connected with the execution of these regulations (e) inspect any document the keeping of which is prescribed by these regulations.
(3) Any person who shall hinder or obstruct a person appointed by the Authority from allowing him to carry out his duties under these regulations or refuses to comply with the directions which he may give shall be guilty of an offence .
Duty of Port or terminal operator to submit an annual report to the Authority 19.-(1) It shall be the duty of Port or terminal operator to submit an annual report regarding the operation of port waste rec eption facility to the Authority on the first day of June every year.
(2) The report shall include the following information - (a) number and types of ships handled  (b) amount of waste delivered and incinerated or cleaned  (c) number of violations by ships with their flags  (d) performance of facility comparing the amount handled and the actual capacity of the facility and 15 (e) any other information that may be useful and best interest for the protection of marine environment.
PART FOUR PENALTIES Penalties und er Part One 20.
Any person who is guilty of an offence under Regulation 5( 3) shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding three thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to both .
Penalties under Part Two 21.-(1) Any person who is guilty of an offence under Regulation 6(7) shall be liable on summary conv iction to a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to both .
(2) Any person who is guilty of an offence under Regulation 7(4) shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding six thousand dollars or to impriso nment for a term not exceeding nine months, or to both .
(3) Any port or terminal operator that found g uilty of an offence under Regulation 12(2) shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not less than twenty thousand dollars.
Penalties under Part three 22.
A Master of a ship who is guilty of an offence under regulation 13(4) , 14( 4), 15(3) , 15(5) and 17(3) is liable on summary conviction to a fine not less than three thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a term not less than six months, or to both.
Compounding of offences 23.-(1) Notwithstanding any other law, where a ship or master vi olates any provision of these Regulation , the Director General may serve on that ship or master a notice in the specified form, calling upon such ship or master to pay in respect of the offence, the amount of fines so specified with the offence alleged to have been committed.
(2) The notice under sub regulation (1) of this regulation, shall specify (a) name and registration number of the ship (b) the offence alleged to have been committed (c) place and time upon which the offence has occurred (d) actual amount of fi ne so specified for that offence 16 (e) time and manner in which the fine should be paid and (f) any other particular or information relating to that offence when the Director General may think necessary.
(3) The ship or master served with a notice under sub regulation (1) of this regulation shall, within seven days from the date in which the notice has been delivered to him , pay the amount o f fine to the Authority.
(4) Where a ship or master has been served with a notice under sub regulation (1) of this regula tion, fails to pay such a fine within the time limit specified in the notice, the Authority shall proceeds with criminal action against such a ship or master.
(5) When the ship or master pay the amount of fine so specified in the notice, no further crim inal actions relating to the same offence shall be taken against the ship or master.
17 FIRST SCHEDULE Made under regulation 9(2) REQUIREMENTS FOR WASTE MANAGEMENT PLANS 1.
Waste management plans shall cover all types of prescribed wastes originating from ships normally visiting the harbour or terminal and shall be developed according to the size of the harbour or terminal and the types of ship calling at that harbour or terminal.
A waste management plan shall address the following elements - (a) an assessment of the need for waste reception facilities, in the light of the need of the ships normally visiting the harbour or terminal (b) a description of the type and capacity of waste reception facilities (c) a detailed description of the procedur es for the reception and collection of prescribed wastes (d) a description of the charging system (e) procedures for reporting alleged inadequacies of waste reception facilities (f) procedures for on -going consultations with persons using the harbour or terminal, waste contractors and other interested parties and (g) the type and quantities of prescribed wastes received and handled.
A waste man agement plan shall also include - (a) a summary of relevant legislation and formalities for delivery (b) identification of a person or persons to be responsible for the implementation of the waste management plan (c) a description of the pre -treatment equipment and processes in the harbour or terminal, if any (d) a description of methods of recording actual use of the waste reception facilities (e) a description of methods of recording amounts of prescribed wastes received (f) a description of how the prescribed wastes are disposed of.
The procedures for reception, collection, storage, treatm ent and disposal should conform in all respects to an environmental management scheme suitable for the progressive reduction of the environmental impact of these activities.
The waste management plan shall provide for the following information to be m ade available to pers ons using harbour or terminal - (a) brief reference to fundamental importance of proper delivery of prescribed wastes 18 (b) location of waste reception facilities applicable to each berth, with a diagram or map (c) list of prescribed wastes normally dealt with (d) list of contact points, the operators and the services offered (e) description of procedures for delivery (f) description of charging system and (g) procedures for reporting alleged inadequacies of waste reception fac ilities.
19 SECOND SCHEDULE Made under regulation 13(2) INFORMATION TO BE NOTIFIED BEFORE ENTRY INTO THE PORT OF  (Port of destination ) 1.
Name, call sign and, where appropriate, IMO identificati on number of the ship 2.
Flag State 3.
Estimated time of arrival (ETA) 4.
Estimated time of departure (ETD) 5.
Previous port of call 6.
Next port of call 7.
Last port and date where ship -generated waste was delivered 8.
Are you delivering All Some None of your waste into the waste reception facilities 9.
Type and amount of waste and residues to be delivered and/o r remaining on board, and percentage of maximum storage capacity Notes  1.
This information may be used for Port State Control and other inspection purposes 2.
Authority will determine which bodies will receive copies of this notification 3.
This form sha ll be completed unless the ship is covered by an exemption in accordance with regulation 15 .
Type Waste to be delivered m3 Maximum dedicated storage capacity m3 Amount of waste retained on board m3 Port at which remaining waste will be delivered Estim ated amount of waste to be generated between notification and next port of call 20 m3 1.
Waste Oils Sludge Bilge waters Others (specify) 2.
Garbage Food Waste Plastic Others 3.
Cargo Associated Waste (specify) 4.
Cargo Res idues (specify) 5.
Sewage I confirm that (a) the above details are accurate and correct, and (b) there is sufficient dedicated onboard capacity on our ship to store all waste generated between notification and the next port at which waste will be de livered.
Date  Time  Signature  Official stamp SIGNED on 12 this day of February , 201 9.
(DR.
SIRA UBWA MAMBOYA ) MINISTER OF INFRASTUCTURE , COMMUNICATION AND TRANSPORTATION

1 THE MARITIME TRANSPORT ACT, NO.
5 OF 2006  THE CARRIAGE OF DANGEROUS GOODS REGU LATIONS ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS REGULATIONS TITLE PART ONE PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS 1.
Short title and commencement date.
Interpretation.
PART TWO GENERAL DUTIES 3.
Application.
Exemption.
Document of compliance, inspection and certification.
General duties of ship owner, employer and master.
General duties of employee aboard ship.
Conduct endangering the ship or persons aboard ship.
Duty to report certain incidents involving packaged dangerous goods.
PART THREE CARRIAGE OF PACKAGED DANGEROUS GOODS 10.
Declaration.
Preparation of goods for transport.
Packing Certificates.
List, manifest or stowage plan.
2 14.
Marking and labeling.
Stowage 16.
Carriage of explosives.
PART FOUR CARRIAGE OF DANGEROUS GOODS IN BULK 17.
Carriage in bulk .
Documentation .
List, manifest or stowage plan.
PART FIVE ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS 20.
Power to detain .
Penalties and defenses .
Compounding of offences.
3 THE MARITIME TRANSPORT ACT, NO.
5 OF 2006  THE CARRIAGE OF DANGEROUS GOODS REGU LATIONS Made under section 257   IN EXERCISE of the powers conferred upon me under section 257 of the Maritime Transport Act, No.
5 of 2006, I, DR.
SIRA UBWA M AMBOYA, Minister of responsible for Maritime Transport affairs, do hereby make the Carriage of Dangerous Goods Regulations as follows PART ONE PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS Short title and commencement date.
These Regulations may be cited as the Carriage of Dangerous Goods Regulations, 2018, and shall come into operation after being signed by the Minister and published in the Official Gazette .
Interpretation.
In these Regulations unless the context requires otherwise Act means the Maritime Transport Act, No.
5 of 20 18 Authority means the Zanzibar Maritime Authority established under Section 3 of the Zanzibar Maritime Authority Act, No.3 of 2009  BCH Code means IMO Code for the Construction and Equipment of Ships Carrying Dangerous Chemicals in Bulk Bulk Cargoes Code means IMO Code of Safe Practice for Solid Bulk Cargoes correct technical name means a description of goods sufficient to identify their dangerous properties, including any proper shipping name described in the IMDG Code dangerous goods includes (a) goods classified in the IMDG Code or in any other IMO publication referred to in these regulations as dangerous for carriage by sea, and any other substance or goods the properties of which might be dangerous if that substance or those goods were carried by sea 4 (b) empty receptacles and residues in empty tanks or cargo holds that have been used previously for the carriage of dangerous goods, unless such receptacles, empty tanks or cargo holds have been cleaned and dried, purged, gasfreed or ventilated, as appropriate or, in the case of radioactive materials, both cleaned and adequately closed, but does not include goods forming part of the equipment or stores of the ship in which they are carried dangerous goods declaration means a certificate or declaration in writing, signed by the person making it that the shipment offered for carriage is properly classified, packaged, marked, labelled or placarded, as appropriate, in accordance with the IMDG Code and is in a proper condition for carriage by sea durably marked means marked so that the label or other mar king in accordance with these regulations is such as to remain identifiable on packages surviving at least three months immersion in the sea and durable has a corresponding meaning employee means any person, including a master but excluding dock workers or shore -based repair or other workers temporarily emplo yed on board the ship, employed - (a) in the deck, engine, radio, medical or catering department of a ship or (b) in the provision of goods, services or entertainment on board explosives includes the articles and substances specified in Class 1 of the IMDG Code flammable liquid means a liquid the flash point of which is at or below 60 C (closed cup) in respect of bulk cargoes and at or below 61 C (closed cup) in respect of packaged dangerous goods forwarder means the person by whom dangerous goods are delivered to a ship or its agent Gas Carrier Code means IMO Code for the Construction and Equipment of Ships Carrying Liquefied Gases in Bulk 5 Gas Carrier Cod e for Existing Ships means IMO Code for Existing Ships Carrying Liquefied Gases in Bulk handling includes the operations of loading, unloading and transferring dangerous goods and cleaning, purging, gas freeing , ullaging, sounding, sampling and simil ar operations required for the carriage of such goods in a ship IBC Code means IMO International Code for the Construction and Equipment of Ships Carrying Dangerous Chemicals in Bulk IGC Code means IMO International Code for the Construction and Equipment of Ships Carrying Liquefied Gases in Bulk IMDG Code means IMO International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code as may be amended from time to time  IMO means the International Maritime Organization in bulk means directly and without inter mediate form of containment in a hold, tank or cargo space that is a structural part of or permanently attached to a ship package means a package or receptacle described in the IMDG Code and includes a freight container or a portable tank or tank cont ainer or tank vehicle or other vehicle or other cargo transport unit containing dangerous goods for shipment ship owner includes (a) where the ship is chartered by demise, the demise charterer (b) where the ship is managed by a ship management company, the manager shipper means a person who, whether as principal or agent for another, consigns dangerous goods for carriage by sea UN number means the number allocated to the dangerous substanc e or article by the United Nations Committee of Experts on the Transport of Dangerous Goods specified in the latest edition of the publication entitled Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods published by the United Nations Organization.
6 PART TWO GENERAL DUTIES Application 3.
These R egulations shall apply to every ship carrying dangerous goods in bulk or packaged loaded or to be discharge in any port in Zanzibar .
Exemption 4.
The Authority may, with or without conditions, grant exemption from any provision of these Regulations for classes of cases or individual cases and may, subject to giving reasonable notice, amend or cancel any such exemption.
Document of compliance, inspection and certification 5.-(1) D angerous goods shall not be taken on board a ship unless the ship has on board a document of compliance, issued by the Authority or the competent authority of the country in which the ship is registered or, in the abse nce of registration, whose flag it is entitled to fly, to the effect that the spaces in which the goods are to be carried comply with the provisions of these Regulations.
(2) Whenever dangerous goods are to be loaded at a ny port in Zanzibar , the ship-owner or master shall inform the Authority at the port of loading of the intention to load dangerous goods and shall furnish copies of all dangerous goods declarations relating to the goods to be loaded and a copy of the proposed special list, manifest or stowage plan detailing the location in the ship of any dangerous goods already on board, and to be loaded.
(3) The Authority , after taking into account the type, quantity and proposed stowage of the dangerous goods, may, bu t in the case of explosives sha ll, cause the shi p to be inspected by a surveyor - (a) before loading to determine whether - (i) the ship is equipped and in all other respects suitable to carry such goods (ii) the proposed stowage complies with these regulations and (b) during loading and upon completion of loading to determine whether the goods are being and have been handled and stowed in accordance with these Regulations and whether all reasonable and necessary precautions are being and have 7 been taken to ensure the sa fety of the ship, its crew and other personnel during the voyage, and, in both cases, the surveyor must, if he is satisfied with the arrangements, issue the master with a certificate of inspection.
(4) If the ship owner or master fails to comply with this regulation commits an offence General duties of ship owner, employer and master 6.-(1) Every ship -owner and employer of persons aboard a ship and every master of a ship must ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, that when dangerous goods are being handled, stowed or carried in the ship nothing in the manner in which those goods are handled, stow ed or carried is such as might pose a risk to the health or safety of any person.
(2) Without limiting the generality of the ship -owners or employers or masters duty under sub -regulation (1) of this regulation - (a) the matters to which the duty of the ship owner and the employer extends include, in particular (i) the provision and maintenance of the ships structure, fittings and equipment for handling, stowage and carriage of dangerous goods that is, as far as is reasonably practicable, safe and without risk to health (ii) the provision of such information, instruction, training and supervision as is necessary to ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, the health and safety aboard ship of all employees in connection with the handling, stowage and carriage of dangerous g oods in the ship and (b) the duty of a master of a foreign ship includes the matters specified in paragraph (a)(i) and (ii).
(3) If a ship -owner or employer or master fails to comply with this regulation commits an offence .
(4) It is a good defence to a charge under this regulation in relation to the handling of dangerous goods for a person to show that such handling was carried out in accordance with the se Regulations.
General duties of employee aboard ship 7.-(1) Every employee aboard ship must (a) take reasonable care regarding the health and safety of himself or herself and of other persons who may be affected by his or her acts or omissions in connection with the handling, stowage and carriage of dangerous goods in the ship and 8 (b) as regards any d uty or requirement imposed on his or her ship owner or employer by the Act with regard to the health and safety of persons aboard a ship to which these Regulations apply, co -operate with the ship owner or employer as far as is necessary to enable that duty or requirement to be performed or complied with in connection with the handling, stowage and carriage of dangerous goods in the ship.
(2) If an employee aboard ship carrying dangerous goods fails to compl y with sub - regulation (1) of this regulation commits an offence.
Conduct endangering the ship or persons aboard ship 8.-(1) A person shall not , in connection with the handling, stowage and carriage of dangerous goods in a ship, knowingly or recklessly interfere with or misuse anything provided on or disobey instructions displayed on a ship in the interests of health or safety in pursuance of the se Regulations.
(2) Any person carrying dangerous goods on -board a ship fails to comply with thi s regulation commits an offence.
Duty to report certain incidents involving packaged dangerous goods 9.-(1) Where an incident occurs in relation to a shi p involving the loss or likely loss overboard of packaged dangerous goods into the sea, the master of the ship must, without delay, notify the appropriate authority giving such particulars in relation to the inci dent as that authority requires, and if the appropriate authority is not so notified the master is guilty of an offence.
(2) The appropriate authority is - (a) in relation to ships of Tanzania Zanzibar , the nearest proper officer and, where a foreign country is the nearest coastal state to the place where the incident occurred, the government of that foreign country (b) in relation to any other ship, the nearest proper officer.
(3) It is a good defence to a charge under sub -regulation (1) of this regulation for a person to show that he was unable to comply with the sub - regulation in relation to the incident concerned.
PART THREE CARRIAGE OF PACKAGED DANGEROUS GOODS Declaration of goods to be carriage 10.-(1) Packaged dangerous goods shall not be offered for carriage or taken on board a ship unless a dangerous goods declaration has been furnished to the ship -owner or master.
9 (2) Such declaration shall indicate the following (a) the proper shipping name, (b) the class and division accord ing IMDG Code where applicable as prescribed in the Schedule to these Regulations (c) the United Nations (UN) number where allocated by the IMDG Code, (d) where relevant , the packaging or packing group, (e) the number and kind of packages (f) the total quantity of dangerous goods or net explosive mass of the contents (g) the words MARINE POLLUTANT where appropriate and (h) if appropriate, the class of ship needed for any packaged irradiated nuclear fuel, plutonium and high level radioactive wastes carried as cargo in accordance with Class 7 Schedules 10 to 13 to the IMDG Code and the quantities of such goods and (i) any other information required by the IMDG Code.
(3) Where there is doubt as to the appropriate classification of dangerous goods such goods must be classified by an approved classification authority.
(4) Such declaration must include a statement to the effect that the goods are packaged in accordance with these Regulations.
(5) The shipper must furnish the ship -owner or master with a declaration required by this regulation, unless he does not deliver the goods to the ship or its agent, in which case the shipper must furnish the forwarder with such a declaration.
(6) Where the shipper does not deliver the goods to the ship or its agent, the forwarder must furnish the ship -owner or master with the declaration.
(7) If a shipper or a forwarder fails to furnish a declaration required by this regulation, or furnishes a declaration that he knows or ought to know to be false or misleading in a material particular, commits an offence.
(8) If a ship -owner or master accepts for carriage, or takes or receives on board any packaged dangerous goods for which a declaration required by this regulation has not been furnished, commits an offence.
10 Preparation of goods for transport 11.-(1) The shipper shall not offer packaged dangerous goods for carriage unless (a) all the conditions specified in the IMDG Code have been complied with in relation to their declaration, classification, marking, packaging, labelling, placarding and prior notification to competent authority or consignee, as appropriate and (b) in the case of goods in a portable tank or tank container or vehicle the goods have been properly and safely prepared for carriage by sea by complying with the applicable tank requirements for international voyages in accordance with the IMDG Code.
(2) In preparing any goods for shipment it shall be the duty of the shipper to identify and classify dangerous goods in order to ensure that the proper precautions and preparations can be made for transport as required by these Regulations.
(3) D eclaration required by regulation 10 of these Regulations shall not be signed by the shipper unless sub -regulations (1) and (2) of this regulation have been complied with.
(4) Any contravention of sub regulation (1) to (3) of this regulation shall be an offence by the shipp er.
(5) A ship owner or master shall not accept for carriage, or take or receive on board any packaged goods where he has reasonable cause to suspect that the goods are not in compliance with sub -regulation (1) of this regulation .
(6) Any contravent ion of sub-regulation (5) of this regulation commits an offence.
Packing Certificates 12.-(1) Where packaged dangerous goods have been packed into a freight container or into or onto a vehicle the person responsible for packing such goods therein shall  (a) ensure that the stowage, segregation and securing of the goods is adequate and in accordance with the IMDG Code (b) provide the operator or master or shipper or forwarder, with 11 a signed packing certificate in accordance with the requirements of the IMD G Code, indicating the cargo transport unit , cargo unit, identification number or numbers and identifying the place and date of the operation, the name of the person responsible for the packing and his status, and company or organisation.
(2) If the person responsible for packing such goods contravenes sub - regulation (1) of this regulation commits an offence.
(3) A ship owner or his agent or the master shall not knowingly accept on any ship any freight container or vehicle containing dangerous goods in it witho ut a signed packing certificate and if a ship -owner or his agent or the master fails to comply with this sub -regulation , commits an offence.
(4) If the shipper or forwarde r fails to provide the ship owner or master of the ship with the signed packing certificate , commits an offence.
List, manifest or stowage plan 13.-(1) The master of a ship carrying packaged dangerous goods must cause a special list, manifest or stowage plan to be carried on board ship (a) setting out details, obtained from the shipping documents submitted by the shipper, of the packaged dangerous goods on board, including the correct technical name of the goods, their classification in accordance with the r egulation 10 (2) of these Regulations and their mass or volume and (b) showing details of the location in the ship where the goods are stowed.
(2) The master must also carry on board ship any additional special documents required by the IMDG Code for the carriage of packaged dangerous goods.
(3) A ny such list, manifest or stowage plan and any additional special documents required for the acceptance of such goods for carriage in a ship must be kept available and accessible for reference or inspection on board the ship until the goods have been disch arged from the ship.
(4) If the master of a ship carrying packaged dangerous goods fails to cause a list, manifest or stowage plan or additional special documents required by sub -regulation (2) of this regulation to be carried in the ship or kept availa ble as required by sub -regulation (3) of this regulation , commits an offence .
12 Marking and labeling 14.-(1) A ship owner or master shall not knowingly take packaged dangerous goods or packaged goods on any ship for carriage in that ship unless the following conditions are met (a) packages containing dangerous goods must be durably marked in accordance with the IMDG Code and provided with labels or stencils of labels or placa rds where specified in the Code (b) the method of marking the correct technical name and of affixing labels or applying stencils of labels or placards or marine pollutant marks, as appropriate, on packages containing dangerous goods must be such that the information m arked, affixed or applied will remain legible after the package has been immersed in the sea for three months or, if the package itself disintegrates before the end of that period, for a s long as the package will last and (c) where the outer material of the package is such that it will not survive at least three months immersion in the sea, any inner receptacles that will survive such immersion must be durably marked by any suitable means, including an IMDG Code Class symbol or marine pollutant mark or both, of an appropriate size, to indicate the nature of the danger to which the goods give rise.
(2) Without prejudice to the conditions specified under sub regulation (1) of this regulation, where the goods are contained in a freight container, vehicle, por table tank or tank container, the cargo transport unit in which the goods are contained must bear conspicuously on its exterior distinctive placards or other appropriate marking in accordance with the IMDG Code.
(3) Any breach of this regulation relatin g to the marking, labelling or placarding of packaged dangerous goods is an offence on the part of the shipper of those goods.
(4) If a ship-owner or master accepts danger ous goods to be taken on board ship in any package that has not been marked and la belled or placard in accordance with this regulation, commits an offence.
Stowage .
15.-(1) Packaged dangerous goods must be stowed, segregated and secured in accordance with the IMDG Code .
13 (2) Where packaged dangerous goods are shipped in or on a vehicle or freight container that was loaded after those goods left the premises or control of the shipper, it is the duty of the person responsible for loading that vehicle or freight container to ensure that the stowage, segregation and securing of those goods in the vehicle or freight container is adequate and complies with the IMDG Code .
(3) If a ship -owner or master or the person responsible for packing dangerous goods in a freight container or vehicle or for stowing the dangerous goods in a ship fails to comply with this regulation, commits an offence .
Carriage of explosives 16.-(1) Explosives that a ship -owner or master knows or ought to know pose a serious risk when carried in a ship shall not be taken on board a ship unless (a) such explosives are stowed in a compartment in which any electrical apparatus and cables are so designed and used as to minimise the risk of fire or explosion (b) detonators are effectively segregated from all other explosives (c) the stowage and segregation of explosives complies with the IMDG Code and (d) where such explosives are requ ired to be stowed in a magazine (i) such magazine has been approved and (ii) such magazine is kept securely closed while the ship is at sea.
(2) If a ship -owner or master fails to comply with this regulation commits an offence.
PART FOUR CARRIAGE OF DANGEROUS GOODS IN BULK Carriage in bulk 17.-(1) Dangerous goods shall not be handled or carried in bulk in any ship if the ship -owner has reason to believe that such goods may not be so handled or carried in bulk safely in that ship.
14 (2) Without limiting the generality of sub -regulation (1) of this regulation  (a) where the dangerous goods in question are goods listed in Chapter VI of the BCH Code, or in Chapter 17 of the IBC Code, or in Chapter XIX of the Gas Carrier Code for Existing Ships, or in Chapter XIX of the Gas Carrier Code, or in Chapter 19 of the IGC Cod e, or are classified dangerous goods listed in Appendix 1 of the Bulk Cargoes Code, they must be handled and carried in accordance with the requirements of whichever of the codes is appropriate or (b) Where the dangerous goods in question consist of a liquid chemical or a liquefied gas that is not listed in the codes specified in paragraph (a), they must be handled and carried in accordance with an approval given by the Authority, Provided that such approval must be given in writing and must specify the date on which it takes ef fect and the conditions if any on which it is given.
(3) If there is any breach of sub -regulation (1) or (2) of this regulation , the ship -owner and the master shall each commits an offence.
Documentation 18.-(1) The shipper of dangerous goods to be carried in bulk must furnish the ship -owner or the master with notification in writing stating the nature of the goods and, in the case of liquid goods with a flashpoint at or below 60 C (closed cup), specifying the flashpoint of tho se goods.
(2) The n otification provided in sub -regulation (1) of this regulation, must specify  (a) the correct technical name of the goods (b) their UN number (if any)  and (c) for dangerous goods carried in solid form in bulk, their classification in accordance with regulation 10 (2) of these Regulations .
(3) If a shipper of dangerous goods in bulk fails to furnish the ship - owner or master with such notification in writing, or furnishes notification that he knows or ought to know to be false or m isleading in a material particular commits an offence.
List, manifest or stowage plan 19.-(1) The master of a ship carrying dangerous goods in bulk must cause a special list, manifest or stowage plan to be carried on board ship 15 (a) setting out details, obtained from the shipping documents submitted by the shipper, of the dangerous goods carried aboard the ship for the voyage on which it is currently engaged, including the correct technical name of the goods, their mass or volume and, where the dang erous goods appear in Appendix 1 of the Bulk Cargoes Code, their classification in accordance with regulation 10 (2)of these Regulations  and (b) showing details of the location in the ship where the goods are stowed.
(2) The master must also carry in the ship an y additional special documents required by the Bulk Cargoes Code, the BCH or IBC Codes, or the IGC or Gas Carrier Codes for the carriage of dangerous goods.
(3) Any such list, manifest or stowage plan and any additional special documents required for the acceptance of such goods for carriage in a ship must be kept available for reference or inspection on board the ship until the goods have been discharged from the ship.
(4) If the master of a ship carrying dangerous goods in bulk fails to cause a list, manifest or stowage plan or additional special documents required for the acceptance of such goods for carriage to be carried in the ship or kept available as required by sub -regulation (3) of this regulation , commits an offence.
PART FIVE ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS Power to detain 20.
A ship that fails to comply with these regulations, including any condition imposed thereunder, may be detained in accordance with the provisions of the Act or these Regulations .
Penalties and defences 21.-(1) A person guilty of an offence under these regulations shall be liable to a fine not less than the equivalent of ten thousand dollars or to imprisonmen t for a period not less than six months.
(2) It is a good defence to a charge under these regulations for a person to show (a) that he took all reasonable ste ps to ensure compliance with these regulations 16 (b) that he did not know nor ought to have known nor had reasonable grounds for suspecting the goods to be dangerous goods (c) that the goods were handled and carried in accordance with the provisions of the IMDG Code, where applicable (d) if the person charged is the ship-owner or master, in the case of goods packed in a freight container or vehicle, that before the freight container or vehicle was taken on board the ship the person responsible for packing the goods into the freight container or vehicle had furnished the ship -owner or master of the ship with a signed packing certificate certifying that the goods had been properly packed in the freight container or vehicle (e) that the goods, being solid dangerous goods in bulk, were handled and carried in accordance with the Bulk C argoes Code (f) that the goods, being liquid chemical or gaseous dangerous goods in bulk, were handled and carried in accordance with the relevant requirements of the BCH Code, the IBC Code, the Gas Carrier Code, the Gas Carrier Code for Existing Ships and t he IGC Code.
Compounding of offences 22.-(1) Notwithstanding any other law, where a ship or master violates any provision of these Regulation, the Authority may serve on that ship or master a notice in the specified form, calling upon such ship or master to pay in respect of the offence, the amount of fines so specified with the offence alleged to have been committed.
(2) The notice under sub regulation (1) of this regulation, shall specify (a) name and registration number of the ship (b) the offence alleged to have been committed (c) place and time upon which the offence has occurred (d) actual amount of fine so specified for that offence (e) time and manner in which the fine should be paid and 17 (f) any other particular or information relating to that offence when the Authority may think necessary.
(3) The ship or master served with a notice under sub regulation (1) of this regulation shall, within seven days from the date in which the notice has been delivered to him, pay the amount of fine to the Authority.
(4) Where a ship or master has been served with a notice under sub regulation (1) of this regulation, fails to pay such a fine within the time limit specified in the n otice, the Authority shall proceeds with criminal action against such a ship or master.
(5) When the ship or master pay the amount of fine so specified in the notice, no further criminal actions relating to the same offence shall be taken against the shi p or master.
18 SCHEDULE Classes of Dangerous Goods Made under regulation 10(2) (b) Class Type of Goods Class 1 Explosives Class 2 Gases compressed, liquefied or dissolved under pressure, subdivided into three categories 2.1 Flammable gases 2.2 Non-flammable gases, being compressed, liquefied or dissolved, but neither flammable nor poisonous 2.3 Poisonous gases Class 3 Flammable liquids, subdivided into three categories 3.1 Low flashpoint group of liquid s having a flashpoint below -18/C, closed cup test 3.2 Intermediate flashpoint group of liquids having a flashpoint of - 18 /C up to but not including 23 /C, closed cup test 3.3 High flashpoint group of liquids having a flashpoint of 23 /C up to and including 61 /C, closed cup test Class 4 4.1 Flammable solids 4.2 Substances liable to spontaneous combustion 4.3 Substances that, in contact with water, emit flammable gases Class 5 5.1 Oxidising substances (agents) 5.2 Organic peroxides Class 6 6.1 Poisonous (toxic) substances 6.2 Infectious substances Class 7 Radioactive materials Class 8 Corrosives Class 9 Miscellaneous dangerous substances and articles that pose a danger not covered by other classes 19 SIGNED on this 12day of February , 201 9.
(DR.
SIRA UBWA MAMBOYA ) MINISTER OF INFRASTRUCTURE, COMMUNICATION AND TRANSPORTATION

1 THE MARITIME TRANSPORT ACT, NO.
5 OF 2006 REGULATIONS FOR PREVENTION OF MARINE OILPOLLUTION  ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS REGULATIONS TITTLE PART ONE PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS 1.
Short title and commencement.
Interpretation 3.
Application 4.
Equivalents PART TWO SURVEYS, CERTIFICATES AND OIL RECORD BOOK 5.
Surveys before issue of a Certificate 6.
Annual Survey 7.
Intermediate Survey 8.
Issue and duration of Certificate 9.
Responsibilities of owner and master 10.
Procedure to be adopted when corrective action is necessary 11.
Oil Record Book 2 PART THREE REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTROL OF OPERATIONAL POLLUTION CONTROL OF DISCHARGE OF OIL 12.
General exceptions 13.
Ships other than oil tankers and machinery space bilges of oil tankers 14.
Oil Tankers 15.
Oil filtering equipment and oil discharge monitoring and control system 16.
Retention of oil on board 17.
Control system of oil discharge PART FOUR REQUIREMENTS FOR THE SEGREGATION OF CARGO 18.
General application 19.
New tankers of 20,000 tons deadweight and above 20.
Protective location of segregated ballast spaces 21.
Requirements for oil tankers with dedicated clean ballast tanks 22.
Requirements for crude oil washing 23.
Existing oil tankers engaged in specific trades 24.
Existing oil tankers having special ballast arrangements 25.
Segregation of oil and water ballast and carriage of oil in forepeak tanks 26.
Tanks for oil residue (sludge) 27.
Pumping, piping and discharge arrangements of oil tankers 3 PART FIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR MINIMISING OIL POLLUTION FROM OIL TANKERS DUE TO SIDE AND BOTTOM DAMAGE 28.
Interpretation 29.
Limitation of size and arrangement of cargo tanks 30.
Subdivision and stability PART SIX IMPROVED REQUIREMENTS FOR THE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF OIL TANKERS AGAINST OIL POLLUTION IN THE EVENT OF COLLISION OR STRANDING 31.
New oil tankers (building contracts after 5th July 1993) 32.
Existing oil Tankers (building contracts before 6th July 1993) PART SEVEN OFFSHORE INSTALLATIONS 33.
Requirements for Offshore Installations PART EIGHT PREVENTION OF POLLUTION ARISING FROM AN OIL POLLUTION INCIDENT 34.
Shipboard oil pollution emergency plan PART NINE POWERS TO INSPECT, DENY ENTRY, DETENTION AND PENALTIES 35.
Power to Inspect 36.
Power to deny entry or detain 37.
Penalties 4 38.
Suspension of proceedings at flag state request 39.
Compounding of offences 5 THE MARITIME TRANSPORT ACT , NO.
5 OF 2006  REGULATIONS FOR PREVENTION OF MARINE OILPOLLUTION Made under section 287(1)   IN EXERCISE of the powers conferred upon me under section 287(1) of the Maritime Transport Act, No.
5 of 2006, I, DR.
SIRA UBWA M AMBOYA, Minister responsible for maritime transport affairs, do hereby makes the following Regulations PART ONE PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS Short title and commencement 1.
These Regulations may be cited as the Regulations for Prevention of Marine Oil Pollution of 201 9 and shall come into operation after being signed by the Minister and published in the Official Gazette.
Interpretation 2.
In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires - Act means the Maritime Transport Act, No.
5 of 2006 amidships means at the middle of the length (L) Annex I means Annex I to the Convention (which sets out regulations for the prevention of pollution by oil) anniversary date means the date in each year corresponding to the date of expiry of the IOPP Certificate Authority means the Zanzibar Maritime Authority breadth means the maximum breadth of the ship, measured amidships to the moulded line of the frame in a ship with a metal shell and to the outer surface of the hull in a ship with a shell of any other material, measured in metres central tank means any tank inboard of a longitudinal bulkhead Certifying Authority means the Registrar of Ships or any person authorised 6 by the Registrar of Ships  chemical tanker means a ship constructed or adapted primarily to carry a cargo of noxious liquid subst ances in bulk and includes an oil tanker when carrying a cargo or part cargo of noxious liquid substances in bulk clean ballast means the ballast in a tank which, since oil was last carried therein, has been so cleaned that the effluent therefrom, if it were discharged from a ship which is stationary into clean calm water on a clear day would not produce visible traces of oil on the surface of the sea water or on adjoining shorelines or cause a sludge or emulsion to be deposited beneath the surface of the wat er or upon adjoining shorelines  combination carrier means a ship designed to carry either oil or solid cargoes in bulk controlled waters means the waters specified as areas within which the sea water jurisdiction and rights of the Zanzibar are exercisable by the Act Convention means the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships 1973, including its protocols, Annex I (but no other Annex) and appendices thereto, as amended by the Protocol  Convention country means a country which is a Party to the Convention crude oil means any liquid hydrocarbon mixture occurring naturally in the earth, whether or not treated to render it suitable fo r transportation, and includes - (a) crude oil from which certain distillate fractions may have been removed and (b) crude oil to which certain distillate fractions may have been added crude oil tanker means an oil tanker engaged in the trade of carrying crude oil deadweight means the difference in metric tons between the displacement of a ship in water of a specific gravity of 1.025 at the load waterline corresponding to the assigned summer freeboard and the lightweight of the ship 7 discharge, in relation to harmful substances or effluents containing such substances, me ans any release, howsoever caused, from a ship and includes any escape, disposal, spilling, leaking, pumping, emitting or emptying, but does not include - (a) dumping within the meaning of the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter signe d in London on 13 November 1972 (b) release of harmful substances directly arising from the exploration, exploitation and associated off -shore processing of sea -bed mineral resources or (c) release of harmful substances for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abatement or control existing ship means a ship which is not a new ship filtering equipment mean filters or any combination of separators and filters which are designed to produce effluent contain ing not more than 15ppm of oil flag state means the state whose flag a ship is entitled to fly forward and after perpendiculars shall be taken at the forwa rd and after ends of the length  Government ship has the same meaning as assigned to it under the Act GT means gross registered tonnage and the gross registered tonnage of a ship having alternative gross registered tonnages shall be taken to be the larger of those tonnages Guidelines and Specifications for oil discharg e monitoring and control systems for oil tankers means Resolution A496(XII) adopted by the International Maritime Organisation and contained in the 1987 Edition of Oily Water Separators and Monitoring Equipment, published by that Organisation or revised g uidelines by the Marine Environment Protection Committee Resolution MEPC.108(49) adopted on 18th July 2003  harmful substance means any substance which, if introduced into the sea, is liable to create hazards to human health, to harm living resources a nd marine life, to damage amenities or interfere with other legitimate uses of the sea, 8 and includes oil instantaneous rate of discharge of oil content means the rate of discharge of oil in litres per hour at any instant divided by the speed of the sh ip in knots at the same instant IOPP Certificate means the International Oil Pollution Prevention Certificate issued in accordance with the Convention length means 96 per cent of the total length on a waterline at 85 per cent of the least moulded depth measured from the top of the keel, or the length from the foreside of the stem to the axis of the rudder stock on that waterline, if that be greater lightweight means the displacement of a ship in metric tons without cargo, fuel, lubricating oil, ballast water, fresh water and feed water in tanks, consumable stores, and passengers and crew and their effects major conversion means a conversion of an existing ship - (a) which substantially alters the dimensions or carrying capacity of the ship or (b) which changes the type of the ship or (c) the intent of which, in the opinion of the Registrar , is substantially to prolong its life or (d) which otherwise so alters the ship that, if it were a new ship, it would become subject to rele vant provisions of the Protocol not applicable to it as an existing ship (e) but conversion of - (i) an existing oil tanker of 20,000 tons deadweight and above to meet the requirements of these R egulation s or (ii) an existing oil tanker to meet the requirements of these Regulation s (iii) shall not be deemed to constitute a major conversion Merchant Shipping Notice means a Notice described as such and issued by the Authority, and includes any document amending or replacing that Notice which is considered by the Registrar of Ships to be relevant from time to time and is specified in that n otice mile means an international nautical mile that is to s ay a distance of 1,852 9 metres oil means petroleum in any form including crude oil, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse and refined products, other than oil -like substances oil fuel means any oil used as fuel in connection with the propulsion and auxiliary machinery of the ship in which such o il is carried oil tanker means a ship constructed or adapted primarily to carry oil in bulk in its cargo spaces and includes a combination carrier or a chemical tanker when it is carrying a cargo or part cargo of oil in bulk oily mixture means a mixture with any oil content permeability of a space means the ratio of the volume within that space which is assumed to be occupied by water to the total volume of that space ppm means parts per million product carrier  means an oil tanker engaged in the trade of carrying oil other than crude oil Recommendations on International Performance and Test Specifications for Oily Water Separating Equipment and Oil Content Meters means Resolution A393(XI) of that title ado pted by the International Maritime Organisation as modified by the Marine Environment Protection Committees Resolution 60(33) contained in the 1987 Edition of Oily Water Separators and Monitoring Equipment published by that Organisation segregated ba llast means the ballast water introduced into a tank which is completely separated from the cargo oil and oil fuel system and which is permanently allocated to the carriage of ballast or to the carriage of ballast or cargoes other than oil or noxious liqu id substances separating equipment means either separators or filters, or any combination of them, which are designed to produce effluent containing not more than 100 ppm of oil ship means a vessel of any type whatsoever operating in the marine environment including waters navigable by sea -going vessels and includes 10 submersible craft, floating craft and a structure which is a fixed or floating platform but excludes hovercraft slop tank means a tank specifically designed for the collection of tank drainings, tank washings and other oily mixtures special area means a sea area where, for recognised technical reasons in relation to its oceanographically and ecological condition and to the particular character of its traffic, the adoption of special mandatory methods for the prevention of s ea pollution by oil is required  Specifications for Oil Tankers with Dedicated Clean Ballast Tanks means the Inte rnational Maritime Organisations Resolution Number A495 (XII) contained in the 1982 edition of Dedicated Clean Ballast Tanks published by that Organisation Specifications for Oil or Water Interface Detectors means the International Maritime Organisat ions Resolution Number MEPC 5(XIII), contained in the 1987 edition of Oily or Water Separators and Monitoring Equipment, published by that Organisation Specifications for the Design, Operation and Control of Crude Oil Washing Systems, means the Inter national Maritime Organisations Resolution Number A446(XI) contained in the 1983 edition of Crude Oil Washing Systems, published by that Organisation surveyor means a surveyor appointed by a Certifying Authority tank means an enclosed space whic h is formed by the permanent structure of a ship and which is designed for the carriage of liquid in bulk volume in relation to a ship shall be calculated in all cases to moulded lines wing tank means any tank adjacent to the side shell plating.
Application 3.-(1) Unless expressly provided otherw ise, these Regulations apply to- (a) Tanzania Zanzibar ships (b) other ships while they are within Zanzibar or the territorial sea thereof and 11 (c) Government ships registered in the Zanzibar .
(2) These Regulations shall not apply to any warship, naval auxiliary or other ship owned or operated by a Zanzibar and used, for the time being, only on government non -commercial service.
(3) The Registrar of Ships may exempt a ship of a new type whose constructional features are such as to render the application of any of the provisions of these r egulations relating to construction and equipment unreasonable or impracticable from those provisions, provided that the construction and equipment of that ship provides equivalent protection against pollution by oil, having regard to the service for which it is intended.
(4) In ships, other than oil tankers, fitted with cargo spaces which are constructed and used to car ry oil in bulk of an aggregate capacity of 200 cubic metres or more, the requirements of these R egulations for oil tankers shall also apply to the construction and operation of these spaces, except that where such aggregate capacity is less than 1,000 cubic metres it shall be sufficient to comply with those requirements .
(5) The Registrar of Ships may grant exemptions from all or any of the provisions of these Regulations (as may be specified in the exemption) for classes of ships or individual ships on such terms (if any) as he may so specify and may, subject to giving reasonable notice, alter or cancel any such exemption.
Equivalents 4.
The Registrar of Ships may permit any fitting, material, appliance or apparatus to be fitted in a ship as an alternative to that required by these Regulations if such fitting, material, appliance or apparatus is at least as effective as that required by these Regulations, but shall not permit the substitution of operational methods to control the discharge of oil as being equivalent to those design and construction features which are prescribed by these Regulations.
PART TWO SURVEYS, CERTIFICATES AND OIL RECORD BOOK Surveys before issue of a Certificate 5.-(1) The owner of oil tanker of 150 GT and above shall be subjected - 12 (a) to a survey before the ship is put into service or before an IOPP Certificate in respect of the ship is issued for the first time by a surveyor appointed by the A uthority  (b) to a renewal survey within five years of the first issue of an IOPP Certificate an d at intervals not exceeding five years thereafter by a surveyor appointed by a Certifying Au thority.
(2) The surveyor shall survey the ship and satisfy himself that its structure, equipment, systems, fittings, arrangements and material are in accordance with the requirements of these Regulations and that the equipment and associated pump and pi ping systems, including oil discharge monitoring and control systems, crude oil washing systems, oily water separating equipment and oil filtering systems are in good working order.
(3) The initial and any renewal survey to be carried out under this regulation shall be in accordance with the procedures laid down by the law .
Annual Survey 6.-(1) The owner of ship in respect of which an IOPP Certificate has been issued shall, so long as the certificate remains in force, cause the ship to be subject to an annual survey, which shall be carried out within three months before or after the anniversa ry date of the IOPP Certificate, provided that no annual survey shall be required when the intermediate survey pursuant to regulation 7 of these Regulations is carried out within three months before or after the anniversary date of the IOPP Certificate.
(2) The surveyor shall survey the ship and satisfy himself - (a) that those parts of the ship and its equipment are the subject of the survey remain efficient and (b) that no material alterations have been made in the structure, equipment, systems, fittings, ar rangements and materials to which the IOPP Certificate relates without the approval of the Registrar of Ships .
(3) On completion of the survey the S urveyor shall, if it is in order to do so, endorse the IOPP Certificate to that effect.
13 Intermediate Survey 7.-(1) The owner of the ship in respect of which an IOPP Certificate has been issued shall, so long as the Certificate remains in force, cause the ship to be subject to an intermediate survey during the period of validity of the Certificat e, and t his intermediate survey shall be held not earlier than six months before and not later than six months after the half -way date of the period of validity of the Certificate.
(2) The S urveyor shall survey the ship and satisfy himself - (a) that those parts of the ship and its equipment are the subject of the survey are in good working order and fully comply with these regulations (b) that no material alterations have been made in the structure, equipment, systems, fittings, arrangements and material to which the IOPP Certificate relates without the approval of the Registrar of Ships .
(3) On completion of the survey, the surveyor shal l, if it is in order to do so, endorse the IOPP Certificate to that effect.
Issue and duration of Certificate 8.-(1) When it is in order to do so the Registrar of Ships , or as the case may be a Certifying Authority, shall issue to the ship an appropriate Certificate which in the case of an oil tanker of 150 GT and above and any other ship of 400 GT and above which is engaged in voyages to ports or offshore terminals under the jurisdiction of other Parties to the Convention, is an IOPP Certific ate.
(2) The Registrar of Ships may request through, the Government of a Convention country to survey a ship and if satisfied that the provisions of the Convention are complied with, to issue or authorise the issue of an IOPP Certificate to the ship.
(3) A Certificate so issued shall contain a statement that it has been issued in accordance with such a request, and it shall have the same effect as a Certificate issued under sub regulation (1) of this regulation and shall be in the form PA 01 as shown in the First Schedule of these regulations .
(4) The Registrar of Ships may at the request of a Government of a Convention country survey a ship registered in that State and if satisfied that 14 the provisions of the Convention are complied with, issue a n IOPP Certificate to that ship, a Certificate issued in accordance with such a request shall contain a statement that it has been so issued and shall have the same effect as if it was issued by that Government and not by the Registrar of Ships .
(5) The IOP P Certificate for ships other than oil tankers and the IOPP Certificate for oil tankers shall be in the fo rm prescribed by the Convention and shall be in a form prescribed by the Registrar of Ships which shall be valid for a period not exceeding five years from the date of issue.
(6) The Certificates referred to in the sub regulation (1) of this regulation, shall be supplemented by a Record of Construction and Equipment in the case of an international certificate in the form prescribed by the Convention, approved by the Registrar of Ships and shall be in the form PA 02 as shown in the Second Schedule of these regulations .
(7) A Cert ificate shall cease to be valid - (a) if without the approval of the Registrar of Ships or, as the case may be, a Certifying Authority significant alteration has been made to the construction, equipment, systems, fitting arrangements or material required by the se Regulations, other than the direct replacement of such equipment or fittings (b) in the case of an IOPP Certificate, if the intermediate survey is not carried out within the period specified in regulation 7 of these Regulations  or (c) when the ship transfers to the flag of another State.
(8) The appropriate Certificate shall be kept on board every ship which is either an oil tanker of 150 GT or above or any other ship of 400 GT or above, and shall be available for inspection at all reasonable times.
Responsibilities of owner and master 9.-(1) The owner and master of every ship shall each ensure that the condition of the ship and its equipment is maintained so as to comply with the relevant provisions of these Regulations no material change is made in the structure, equipment, systems, fi ttings, arrangements or material subject to such survey without the approval of the Registrar of Ships .
15 (2) Whenever an accident occurs to a ship or a defect is discovered, either of which affects the integrity of a ship or the efficiency or completeness of its equipment - (a) the master or if the master fails to do so , the owner shall report it at the earliest opportunity to the Registrar of Ships who may cause investigations to be initiated to determine whether a survey by a surveyor is necessary and who ma y in that event require such a survey to be carried out and (b) if the ship is in a port of a Convention country the master or if the master fails to do so, the owner shall in addition make such a report immediately to the appropriate authorities of the country in which the port is situated.
(3) If an accident has occurred to or a defect has been discovered in or on any ship of a country and the accident or defect is such as to affect the integrity of the ship or the efficiency or completeness of its equipment, the owner or if he fails to do s o, the master shall make a report immediately to the Registrar of Ships and to the authority responsible for issuing t he IOPP Certificate to the ship.
(4) The owner or if he fails to do so , the master shall report the results of any investigation or surv ey initiated by the authority responsible for issuing the IOPP Certificate to the ship to the Registrar of Ships , who may cause the ship to be detained until such a report has been made.
(5) If within a reasonable period the Registrar of Ships is not sat isfied that a full and proper report has been made to the authority responsible for issuing an IOPP Certificate to the ship, or that the action taken is not sufficient to restore the integrity of the ship or the efficiency or completeness of its equipment, he may take such steps as will ensure that the ship shall not sail until it can proceed to sea without presenting an unreasonable threat of harm to the marine environment.
(6) Without prejudice to any other action he may take, the Registrar of Ships may request the authority responsible for issuing the IOPP Certificate to the ship to carry out such surveys and inspections as it may consider to be necessary to establish that the condition of the ship is such that it can proceed to sea without presenting an unreasonable threat of harm to the marine 16 environment.
Procedure to be adopted when corrective action is necessary 10.-(1) In any case where the Certifying Authority determines that the condition of a ship or its equipment does not correspond with the particulars of the IOPP Certificate or is such that the ship is not fit to proceed to sea without presenting an unreasonabl e threat of harm to the marine environment, the Certifying Authority shall advise the owner or master of the corrective action which in its opinion is required, and shall give notice thereof to the Registrar of Ships .
(2) If such corrective action is not taken within a reasonable period as the Certifying Authority may specify, the Certifying Authority shall, at the end of that time, immediately notify the Registrar of Ships who may, on receipt of such notification, susp end the validity of the IOPP Certificate issued to the ship and shall give notice of any such suspension to the owner and to the Certifying Authority.
(3) The master shall thereupon deliver the Certificate issued to the Certifying Authority on demand.
(4) Where the ship is in a port of a Convention country and corrective action in accordance with sub regulation (1) of this regulation, has not been taken, the Certifying Authority shall in addition immediately notify the appropriate authorities of the co untry in which the port is situated.
(5) Where, in the case of a ship of a Convention country is in a port, the nominated surveyor or the recognized organisation responsible for issuing the IOPP Certificate to the ship determines that it is necessary to withdraw the certificate, a report shall, unless made by the nominated surveyor or recognized organisation, be made by the master of the ship to the Registrar of Ships .
(6) The Registrar of Ships may then take such steps as will ensure that the ship shall not sail until it can proceed to sea or leave the port for the purposes of proceeding to the nearest appropriate repair yard available without presenting an unreasonable threat of harm to the mari ne environment.
Oil Record Book 11.-(1) Every ship of 400 GT and above, other than an oil tanker, and every oil tanker of 150 GT and above shall be pr ovided with an Oil Record Book which shall be in the form PA 03 as shown in the Third Schedule of 17 these regulations .
(2) The Oil Record Book shall be completed on each occasion, on a tank-to-tank basis if appropriate, whenever any of the following ope rations take pla ce in the ship - (a) for machine ry space operations (all ships) - (i) ballasting or cleaning of oil fuel tanks (ii) discharging ballast or cleaning water from oil fuel tanks (iii) disposing oily residues (sludge) (iv) discharging overboard bilge water which has accumulated in machinery spaces (b) for cargo or ballast operation (oil tankers) - (i) loading oil cargo (ii) internal transfer of oil cargo during voyage (iii) unloading oil cargo (iv) ballasting cargo tanks and dedicated clean ballast tanks (v) cleaning cargo tanks including crude oil washing (vi) discharging ballast except from segregated ballast tanks (vii) discharging water from slop tanks (viii) closing, after the discharge of the contents of the slop tanks, all valves or similar devices opened to permit such operations (ix) closing those valves necessary for the isolation of dedicated clean ballast tanks from cargo and stripping lines after slop tank discharge operations and 18 (x) disposing residues.
(3) In the event of a discharge of oil or oily mixture as is referred to in regulation 12 of these Regulations or in the event of an accidental or other exceptional discharge of oil not accepted by that regulation, a statement shall be made in the Oil Record Book of the circumstances of, and the reasons for, the discharge.
(4) Each operation described in sub regulation (2) of this regulation, shall be fully recorde d without delay in the Oil Record Book so that all entries in the book appropriate to that operation are completed and operation shall be signed by the officer or officers in charge of the operations concerned and each completed page shall be signed by the master.
(5) The Oil Record Book shall be kept in such a place as to be readily available for inspection at all reasonable times and, except in the case of unmanned ships un der tow, shall be kept on board and it shall be preserved for a period of three years after the last entry has been made.
(6) The Registrar of Ships or a person authorised by the Certifying Authority may inspect the Oil Record Book on board whilst the ship is in a port or offshore terminal and may make a copy of any entry in that book and may require the master of the ship to certify that the copy is a true copy of such an entry and a ny such copy shall be admissible in any judicial proceedings as evidence of the facts stated in the entry.
(7) The inspection of an Oil Record Book and the taking of a certified copy by the Registrar of Ships , or a perso n so authorised, under this regulation shall be performed as expeditiously as possible without causing the ship to be unduly delayed.
PART THREE REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTROL OF OPERATIONAL POLLUTION CONTROL OF DISCHARGE OF OIL General exceptions 12.
The provisions of regulations 1 3, 14 and 1 7 of these Regulation s shall not apply to - (a) any discharge into the sea of oil or oily mixture necessary for 19 the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or saving life at sea or (b) any discharge into the sea of oil or oily mixture which results from damage to a ship or its equipment provided that - (i) all reasonable precautions were taken after the damage, or discovery of the discharge, to prevent or minimise the discharge and (ii) the owner or the master did not act either w ith intent to cause damage or recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result or (c) any approved discharge into the sea of substances containing oil, when being used for the purpose of combating specific pollution incidents in order to minim ise the damage from pollution and such discharge shall be subject to the approval of any Government in whose jurisdiction it is contemplated the discharge will be made.
Ships other than oil tankers and machinery space bilges of oil tankers 13.-(1) Subject to regulation 1 2 of these Regulation, this regulation applies to - (a) Tanzania Zanzibar ships other than oil tankers and (b) Tanzania Zanzibar oil tankers in relation to discharges from their machinery space bilges (unless mixed with oil cargo residu e) but excluding cargo pump room bilges wherever they may be, and - (a) subject to regulation 39 of these Regulations, to - (i) other ships, other than oil tankers and (ii) other oil tankers, in relation to discharges from their machinery space bilges (unless mixed with oil cargo residue) but excluding cargo pump room bilges, wherever they may be.
20 (2) Subject to sub regulation (3) of this regulation , a ship to which this regulation applies shall not discharge oil or oily mixture into any part of the sea unless all the foll owing conditions are satisfied - (a) the ship is proceeding on a voyage (b) the ship is not within a special area (c) the oil content of the effluent does not exceed 15ppm and (d) the ship has in operation the filtering equipment and the oil discharge an d monitoring and control system, required by regulation 1 5 of these Regulations .
(3) In the case of a ship referred to in regulation 1 5 of these Regulations which by virtue of that regulation is not required to be fitted and is not in fact fitted with th e equipment required by regulation 1 5(1), (2) or (3) of these Regulations, sub regulation (2) of this r egulation shall not apply until the date o n which the vessel is so fitted.
(4) The ship shall not , until th e date referred to under paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub regulation (3) of this regulation, discharge oil or oily mixture into the sea unless all the foll owing conditions are satisfied - (a) the ship is not within a special area (b) the ship is more than 12 miles from the nearest land (c) the ship is proceeding on a voyage (d) the oil content of the effluent is less than 100ppm and (e) the ship has in operation approved oily -water separating equipment of a design which is approved in accordance with the specification set out in the Recommendatio ns on International Performance and Test Specifications for Oily Water Separating Equipment and Oil Content Meters.
21 (5) No discharge into the sea shall contain chemicals or other substances in quantities or concentrations which are hazardous to the mari ne environment or contain chemicals or other substances introduced for the purpose of circumventing the conditions of discharge prescribed by this regulation.
(6) Insofar as any oil or oily mixture has not been unloaded as cargo and may not be discharge d into the sea in compliance with sub regulation (2) or (3) of this regulation , it shall be retained on board and discharged into reception facilities.
(7) Subject to sub regulation (8), this regulation does not apply to discharges which occur landward of the line which for the time being is the baseline for measuring the breadth of the territorial w aters of the United Republic of Tanzania.
(8) Notwithstanding sub regulation (7) of this regulation , discharges prohibited under sub regulation (4) shall c ontinue to be prohibited when made in the sea on the landward side of the line referred to in sub regulation (7) of this regulation .
Oil Tankers 14.-(1) Subject to regulation 1 2 of these Regulations, this regulation shall applies to - (a) every oil tanker and (b) subject to regulation 3 9 of these Regulations , every other oil tanker wherever it may be.
(2) Subject to sub regulation (3) of this regulation, an oil tanker to which this regulation applies shall not discharge any oil or oily mixture (excep t those for which pr ovision is made in regulation 13 of these Regulations into any part of the sea unless all the foll owing conditions are satisfied - (a) the tanker is proceeding on a voyage (b) the tanker is not within a special area (c) the tanker is more than 5 0 miles from the nearest land 22 (d) the instantaneous rate of discharge of oil content does not exceed 30 litres per mile (e) the total quantity of oil discharged into the sea does not exceed 1/3,00000 of the total quantity of the particular cargo of which the residue formed a part, or, in the case of existing tankers, the total quantity of oil discharged does not exceed 1/1,500 of the total quantity of the particular cargo of which the residue formed a part and (f) the tanker has in operation an oil discharge mon itoring and control system and a slop tank arrangement as required by regulation 1 6 of these Regulations .
(3) The provisions of sub regulation (2) of this regulation, shall not apply to the discharge of clean or segregated ballast or unprocessed oily mixture which without dilution has an oil content not exceeding 15 ppm and which does not originate from cargo pump room bilges and is not mixed with oil cargo residues.
(4) No discharge into the sea shall contain chemicals or other substances in quantitie s or concentrations which are hazardous to the marine environment or contain chemicals or other substances introduced for the purposes of circumventing the conditions of discharge prescribed by this regulation.
(5) Insofar as any oil or oily mixture has not been unloaded as cargo and may not be discharged into the sea in compliance with sub regulation (2) of this regulation , it shall be retained on board and shall be discharged into reception facilities.
(6) Subject to sub regulation (7), this regulation shall not apply to discharges which occur landward of the line which for the time being is the baseline for measuring the breadth of the territorial waters of the United Republic of Tanzania.
(7) Notwithstanding sub regulation (6), d ischarges prohibited under sub regulation (4) of this regulation, shall continue to be prohibited when made in the sea on the landward side of the line referred to in sub regulation (6).
23 Oil filtering equipment and oil discharge monitoring and control system 15.-(1) Subject to sub regulations (3) and (7) of this regulation , every ship of 400 GT and above but less than 10,000 GT shall be fitted with oil filtering equipment complying with sub regulation (5), and any such ship which carries ballast water in its bunker fuel tanks - (a) in addition, shall be provided with an alarm device and the means for automatically stopping and discharge of oily mixture when the oil content in the effluent exceeds 15 ppm complying with the specifications referred to i n sub regulation (6) and (b) shall not discharge such ballast water into the sea unless using that equipment and a record of any such discharge shall made in the Oil Record Book or shall discharge the ballast water to reception facilities.
(2) Subject to sub regulations (2) and (6) of this regulation , every ship which is of 10,000 GT an d above shall be provided with - (a) oil filtering equipment complying with sub regulation (5) of this regulation  and (b) oil content measuring equipment fitted wit h an 15ppm alarm device and with arrangements for automatically stopping any discharge of oily mixture when the oil content in the effluent exceeds 15 ppm, both complying with sub regulation (6) of this regulation .
(3) The Registrar of Ships may waive th e requirements in sub regulations (1) and (2) of this regulation, if a ship is engaged exclusively on voyages within special areas and - (a) it is fitted with a holding tank having a volume adequate for the retention on board of all oily bilge water (b) all oily bilge water is retained on board for subsequent discharge to reception facilities 24 (c) adequate reception facilities are available to receive such oily bilge water in a sufficient number of ports or terminals that the ship calls at (d) the IOPP Certificate, wh en required, is endorsed to the effect that the ship is exclusively engaged on voyages within special areas and (e) the relevant entries are recorded in the Oil Record Book.
(4) Subject to sub regulation (7) of this regulation , every ship which is of less than 400 GT shall, so far as reasonably practicable be constructed to ensure that oil or oily mixtures are retained on board and discharged to reception facilities or, if oil or oily mixtures are to be discharged into the sea, are so discharged in accordan ce with the requirements of regulation 1 3(2) of these Regulations.
(5) Oil filtering equipment shall be of an approved design in accordance with the specification for such equipment set out in the Recommendations on International Performance and Test Specifications for Oily Water Separating Equipment and Oil Content Meter s.
(6) Oil content measuring equipment and alarm device shall be of an approved design in accordance with the specification for such equipment set out in the Recommendations on International Performance and Test Specifications for Oily Water Separating Equipment and Oil Content Meters, and the arrangements for automatically stopping any discharge shall be of an approved design.
(7) A ship delivered before 6th July 1993 need not comply with the foregoing requirements before 6th July 1998 , but, if the s hip does not so comply before that date, it shall be fitted with oily -water separating equipment which is such as to ensure that any oily mixture discharged into the sea after passing through the equipment has an oil content not exceeding 100 ppm.
Reten tion of oil on board 16.-(1) Subject to the provisions of sub regulations (5) and (6), oil tankers of 150 GT and above shall comply with the requirements of sub regulations (2) and (3 ) of these Regulations.
25 (2) An adequate means shall be provided for cleaning the cargo tanks and transferring the dirty ballast residues and tank washings from the cargo tanks into a slop tank, and i n existing oil tankers, any cargo tank may be designated as a slop tank.
(3) The a rrangements shall be provided to transfer the oil waste into a slop tank or combination of slop tanks in such a way that any effluent discharges into the sea will be such as to comply with regulation 1 4 of these Regulations.
(4) The slop tank or combination of slop tanks provided shall have sufficient capacity to retain the slops generated by tank washings, oil residues and dirty ballast residues and that capacity shall be not less than 3 per cent of the cargo oil carry ing capacity of the ship unless - (a) segregated ballast tanks or dedicated c lean ballast tanks are provided in accordance with regulation 19 , or a cargo tank cleaning system using crude oil washing, in accordance wi th regulation 22 and i n that event the total capacity of the slop tank or tanks may be reduced to 2 per cent of the o il carrying capacity of the ship (b) in the case of combination carriers, the oil cargo is carried in tanks with smooth walls, when the said total capacity may be reduced to 1 per cent of the oil carrying capacity of the ship Provided that, where the tank washing arrangements are such that, once the slop tank or tanks are charged with washing water, this water is sufficient for the tank washing and, where applicable, for providing the driving fluid for the pumps (including eductors) without the introdu ction of additional water into the system, the above figures of 3 per cent, 2 per cent and 1 per cent may be reduced to 2 per cent, 1.5 per cent and 0.8 per cent respectively.
(5) The Slop tanks shall be so designed, particularly as regards the position of i nlets, outlets, baffles or weirs (where fitted), as to avoid excessive turbulence and entrainment of oil or emulsion with water.
Control system of oil discharge 17.-(1) The New oil tankers of 70,000 tons deadweight and above shall be provided with at least two slop tanks and oil discharge monitoring and control system of an approved design shall be fitted which designed and 26 installed in accordance with the Guideline s and Specification for Oil Discharge and Control Systems for Oil Tankers.
(2)Any such system shall be fitted with a recording device to provide, unless otherwise required by the Guidelines and Specifications referred to in regulation 16 of these Regulat ions, a continuous record of the discharge of oil in litres per mile and the total quantity of oil discharged or, in lieu of the total quantity of oil discharged, the oil content and rate of discharge of the effluent and the record shall be identifiable as to the time and date and be kept for at least three years.
(3) The system shall be brought into operation when there is a discharge of effluent into the sea and shall be such as to ensure that any discharge of oily mixture is, unless otherwise permitted by the Guidelines and Specifications referred to in regulation 16 of these Regulations, automatically stopped when the instantaneous rate of discharge of oil exceeds 30 litres per mile.
(4) Upon any failure of the system the discharge shall be stopped a nd the failure noted in the Oil Record Book and a manually operated alternative system shall be provided and may be used in the event of such a failure, but the defective unit shall be made operable as soon as possible and if a tanker with a defective unit is within the Tanzania Zanzibar or the territorial sea waters thereof, the Registrar of Ships may allow the tanker to undertake one ballast voyage before proceeding to a repair port.
(5) Effective oil or water interface detectors, of a design approved i n accordance with the Specifications for Oil or Water Interface Detectors, shall be provided for the rapid and accurate determination of the oil or water interface in slop tanks and in other tanks where the separation of oil and water is effected and from which it is intended to discharge effluent direct to the sea.
(6)Approved instruction manuals on the operation and maintenance of the various components comprising the oil discharge monitoring and control system shall be provided, which shall contain inf ormation on manual as well as automatic operation and shall be so drawn up as to ensure that at no time will oil be discharged except in compliance with the conditions specified in regulation 14 of these Regulations.
27 (7) Oil tankers of less than 150 GT p ursuant to regulation 14 shall retain oil and all contaminated washings on board for subsequent discharge to reception facilities, the total quantity of oil and water used for washing and returned to a storage or slop tank shall be recorded in the Oil Reco rd Book and this total quantity shall be discharged to reception facilities unless adequate arrangements are made to ensure that any effluent which is discharged into the sea is effectively monitored to ensure that the provisions of regulation 13 are compl ied with.
PART FOUR REQUIREMENTS FOR THE SEGREGATION OF CARGO General application New tankers of 20,000 tons deadweight and above 18.-(1) Every new crude oil tanker of 20,000 tons deadweight and above and every new product carrier of 30,000 tons deadweight and above shall be provided with segregated ballast tanks and shall comply with the requirement of this regulation .
(2) The capaci ty of the segregated ballast tanks shall be such that the ship can operate safely on ballast voyages without recourse to the use of cargo tanks for water ballast except as provided for in sub regulation (4 ) or (5) of this regulation.
(3) Subject to sub r egulation (2), t he capacity of the segregated ballast tanks shall be at least such that, in any ballast condition at any part of the voyage, including the condition consisting of lightweight plus segregated ballast only, the ships draughts and trim can me et each of the following requirements - (a) the moulded draught amidships (dm) in metres (without taking into account any ships deformation) shall not be less than 2.00.02L (b) the draughts at the forward and after perpendiculars shall correspond to those dete rmined by the draught amidships (dm) as specified in subparagraph (a), in association with the trim by the stern of not greater than 0.015L and (c) in any case the draught at the after perpendicular shall not be less than that which is necessary to obtain fu ll immersion of the propeller.
28 (4) In no case shall ballast water be carried in cargo tanks, except - (a) on those voyages when weather conditions are so severe that, in the opinion of the master, it is necessary to carry additional ballast water in cargo tanks for the safety of the ship (b) where the particular character of the operation of an oil tanker renders it necessary to carry ballast water in excess of the quantity which may be carried in segregated ballast tanks under sub regulation (2), provided th at the Registrar of Ships has approved that method of operation.
any such additional ballast water shall be processed and discharged in accordance with the requirements of regulations 13 and 15 and an entry of the discharge shall be made in the Oil Record Book.
(5) In the case of new crude oil tankers, the additional ballast permitted by sub regulation (3) shall be carried only in cargo tanks that have been crude oil washed in accordance with regulation 21 before departure from an oil unloading port or terminal.
(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub regulation (2) the capacity of the segregated ba llast tanks for new oil tankers less than 150 metres in length shall be as may be determined by the Registrar of Ships .
(7) Every new crude oil tanker of 20,000 tons deadweight and above shall be fitted with a cargo tank cleaning system usin g crude oil washing and the system shall fully comply with the requirements of regulation 21 within one year after the tanker is first engaged in the trade of carrying crude oil or by the end of the third voyage carrying crude oil suitable for crude oil washing, which ever occurs later.
Protective location of segregated ballast spaces 19.
In every new crude oil tanker of 20,000 tons deadweight and above and every new product carrier of 30,000 tons deadweight and above, the segregated ballast tanks required to provide the capacity to comply with regulation 18 which are located within the cargo tank length shall be arranged, in accordance with the requirements of the Fourth Schedule to provide a measure of protection against oil outflow in the event of grounding or collision.
29 Requirements for oil tankers with dedicated clean ballast tanks 20.-(1) An oil tanker operating with dedicated clean ballast tanks in accordance with th e provisions of regulation 18 shall have adequate tank capacity, dedicated solely to the carriage of clean ballast to meet the requirements of regulations 18(2) and (3) as those provisions apply to segregated ballast tanks.
(2) The arrangements and operational procedures for dedicat ed clean ballast tanks shall comply with the requirements of Specifications for Oil Tankers with Dedicated Clean Ballast Tanks.
(3) An oil tanker operating with dedicated clean ballast tanks shall be equipped with an oil content meter approved in accord ance with the specification for such equipment set out in the Recommendations on International Performance and Test Specifications for Oily Water Separating Equipment and Oil Content Meters, so as to permit supervision of the oil content in the ballast wat er being discharged.
(4) Every oil tanker operating with dedicated clean ballast tanks shall be provided with a dedicated Clean Ballast Tank Operation Manual approved by the Authority which shall contain the detail system and specifying operational procedures.
Requirements for crude oil washing 21.-(1) Every crude oil washing system required to be provided in accordance with regulation 18 shall comply with the requirements of this regulation.
(2) The crude oi l washing installation and associa ted equipment and arrangements inclu ding qualification of personnel shall comply with the requirements and specifications set out in Specifications for the Design, Operation and Control of Crude Oil Washing Systems.
(3) With respect to the ballasting of cargo tanks, sufficient cargo tanks shall be crude oil washed prior to each ballast voyage to ensure that, taking into account the tankers trading pattern and expected weather conditions, ballast water will be put only i nto cargo tanks which have been crude oil washed.
(4) Every oil tanker operating with crude oil washing system shall be provided with an Operations and Equipment Manual approved by the 30 Authority, describing the system and equipment in detail and specify ing the operational procedures to be followed.
Existing oil tankers engaged in specific trades 22.-(1) Subject to the provisions of regulations 18 shall not apply to an existing oil tanker engaged sol ely in specific trades between - (a) ports or terminals within a Convention Country or (b) ports or terminals between two or m ore Convention Countries, where - (i) the voyage is entirely within a Special Area as defined in regulation 16 or (ii) the voyage is entirely within other limits designated by the Registrar of Ships .
(2) The provisions of sub regulation (1) of this regulation, shall apply only when the ports or terminals where the cargo is loaded on such voyages are provided with reception facilities adequate for the reception and treatment of all the ball ast and tank washing water from oil tankers using them and all the followin g conditions are complied with - (a) subject to any exceptions provided for in these R egulation s, all ballast water, including clean ballast water, and tank washing residues shall be re tained on board until they are transferred to the said reception facilities, and the entry relating to the transfer in the Oil Record Book shall be endorsed by a competent authority appointed by the Convention Country (b) agreement has been reached between t he Registrar of Ships and the Governments of the Convention Country on the use of an existing oil tanker for such a trade (c) the adequacy of reception facilities in accordance with any Regulations relating to reception facilities at the ports or terminals referred to above, shall be approved by the governments of the Convention Countries within which those ports or terminals are situated and 31 (d) the IOPP Certificate has been endorsed to the effect that the oil tanker is solely engaged in such specific trade.
Existing oil tankers having special ballast arrangements 23.-(1) Where an existing oil tanker of 40,000 deadweight tons and above is so constructed or operates in such a manner that it complies at all times with the draught and trim requirements set out in regulation 18 of these Regulations, without recourse to the use of ballast water, it shall be deemed to comply with the segregated ballast tank requirements, provided that all the followin g conditions are complied with - (a) the operational procedures and ballast arrangements have been approved (b) when the draught and trim requirements are achieved through an operational procedure, agreement as to the use of that procedure has been reached between the Registrar of Ships and the Governments of the Convention Countries concerned and (c) the IOPP Certificate has been endorse d to the effect that the oil tanker is operating with special ballast arrangements.
(2) In no case shall ballast be carried in cargo oil tanks except on those voyages when weather conditions are so severe that, in the opinion of the master, it is necessa ry to carry additional ballast water in cargo tanks for the safety of the ship, such additional ballast water shall be discharged in in compliance with these R egulation s and the discharge of such water shall be entered in the Oil Record Book.
Segregation of oil and water ballast and carriage of oil in forepeak tanks 24.-(1) Except as provided in sub regulation (2) of this regulation , in new ships of 4,000 GT and above other than oil tankers, and in new oil tankers of 150 GT and above, no ball ast water shall be carried in any oil fuel tank.
(2) Where abnormal conditions or the need to carry large quantities of oil fuel render it necessary for ships referred to in sub regulation (1) of this regulation to carry ballast water which is not clean ballast water in any oil fuel tank, such ballast water shall be discharged to reception facilities or into the sea in compliance with the requirements of these R egulation s using the equipment specified herein and the discharge shall be entered in the Oil Record Book.
32 (3) All other ships shall comply with the requirements of sub regulation (1) so far as it is reasonable and practicable to do so.
Tanks for oil residue (sludge) 25.-(1) Every ship of 400 GT and above shall be provided with a tank or tanks of adequate capacity, having regard to the type of machinery installed and length of voyage, to receive any oily residues (sludges) which cannot be dealt with in accordance with the requirements of these Regula tions, such as those resulting from the purification of fuel and lubricating oils and oil leakages in the machinery spaces.
(2) In new ships, such tanks shall be designed and constructed so as to facilitate their cleaning and the discharge of r esidues t o reception facilities and existing ships shall comply with this requirement so far as it is reasonable and practicable to do so.
(3) Every ship to which this regulation applies shall be provided with piping to enable residues from machinery spaces and m achinery space bilges to be pumped to a reception facility and the piping shall be led to the open deck and there fitted with a standard flange in accordance with dimensions given in Fifth Schedule of these Regulations.
(4) Piping to and from sludge tanks shall have no direct connection overboard other than the discharge connection required by sub regulation (3) of this regulation .
Pumping, piping and discharge arrangements of oil tankers 26.-(1) In every oil tanker, a discharge manifold for the discharge of dirty ballast water or oil contaminated water to reception facilities shall be located on the open deck on both sides of the ship.
(2) In every oil tanker, pipelines for any discharge to the sea of ballast or oil contaminated water from cargo tank areas which may be permitted under regulations 12, 13 or 16 of these Regulations, shall be led to the open deck or to the ships side above the waterline in the deepest ballast condition, or, su bject to the approval of the A uthority , below t he waterline - (a) to enable such discharges below the waterline as are permitted under sub regulation (7) of this regulation to be made and (b) where the discharge outlet is located above the departure ballast 33 waterline but not above the waterline i n the deepest ballast condition .
(3) In new oil tankers, means shall be provided for stopping the discharge into the sea of ballast water or oil contaminated water from cargo tank areas, other than those discharges below the waterline permitted under sub regulation (7 ) of this regulation , from a position on the upper deck or above, and so located that the manifold and the discharge to the sea from the pipe lines may be visually observed.
(4) The means for stopping the discharge may be situated elsewhere than at the observation position if an effective communication system, such as a telephone or radio system, is provided between the observation position and the discharge control position.
(5) Every new oil tanke r required to be provided with segregated ballast tanks or fitted with a crude oil washing system shall comply w ith the following requirements - (a) it shall be equipped with oil piping so designed and installed that oil retention in the lines is minimize d and (b) means shall be provided to drain all cargo pumps and all oil lines at the completion of cargo discharge where necessary by connection to a stripping device, so designed that the line and pump drainings shall be capable of being discharged both ashore and to a car go tank or a slop tank and for discharge ashore a special small diameter line shall be provided and connected outboard of the deck manifold valves, both port and starboard.
(6) Every existing crude oil tanker required to be provided with segregated ballast tanks, or to be fitted with a crude oil washing system or to operate with dedicated clean ballast tanks shall comply with the provisions of sub regulation (5)(b) of this regulation .
(7) The b allast water or oil contaminated water from the cargo tank areas of any oil tanker shall be discharged only a bove the waterline, except that segregated ballast and clean ballast may be discharged below the waterline in ports or at offshore terminals or at sea by gravity, provided that 34 the surface of th e ballast water has been examined immediately before the discharge to ensure that no contamin ation with oil has taken place.
(8) The existing oil tankers which, without modification, are not capable of discharging segregated ballast above the waterline m ay discharge segregated ballast below the waterline at sea, provided that the surface of the ballast water has been examined immediately before the discharge to ensure that no contami nation with oil has taken place.
(9) The existing oil tankers operating with dedicated clean ballast tanks which without modification are not capable of discharging ballast water from the dedicated clean ballast tanks above the waterline, may discharge this ballast below the waterline provided that the discharge of the ballas t water is supervised with the aid of an oil content meter as provided for in regulation 20(3) of these Regulations.
(10) The dirty ballast water or oil contaminated water from tanks in the cargo area of an oil tanker at sea, other than slop tanks, may b e discharged by gravity below the waterline, provided that sufficient time ha s elapsed in order to allow oil or water separation to have taken place and the ballast water has been examined immediately b efore the discharge with an oil or water interface det ector of the kind re ferred to in regulation 15(3) of these Regulations , in order to ensure that the height of the interface is such that the discharge does not involve any increased harm to the marine environment.
(11) The dirty ballast water or oil cont aminated water from cargo tank areas of an existing oil tanker may be discharged below the waterline, subsequent to or in lieu of discharge by the method referred to in sub regulation (10), provided that - (a) a part of the flow of such water is led through permanent piping to a readily accessible location on the upper deck or above where it may be visually observed during the discharge operation and (b) such part flow arrangements comply with the requirements set out in the Sixth Schedule of these Regulations .
35 PART FIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR MINIMISING OIL POLLUTION FROM OIL TANKERS DUE TO SIDE AND BOTTOM DAMAGE Interpretation 27.
For the purposes of determining the permissible size and arrangements of cargo tanks and for assessing the standard of subdivision of oil tankers the meaning of side and bottom damage and hypothetical outflow of oil are as set out in the Seventh Sch edule of these Regulations.
Limitation of size and arrangement of cargo tanks 28.-(1) Every new oil tanker shall comply with th e provisions of this regulation and e very existing oil tanker shall comply with the provi sions of this regulation if - (a) the building contract for the tanker wa s placed after 1st January 1974 or (b) in cases where there was no building contract , the keel was laid or the tanker was at a similar stage of construction after 30th June 1974.
(2) The c argo tanks of oil tankers shall be of such size and arrangement that the hypothetical outflow calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Seventh Schedule of these Regulations , anywhere in the length of the ship does not exceed 30,000 cubic metres or 4003DW, whichever is the greater, but subject to a maximum of 40,000 cubic metres.
(3) The volume of any one wing cargo oil tank of an oil tanker shall not exceed 75 per cent of the limits of the hypothetical outflow referred to in sub regulation (2) of this regulation .
(4) The volume of any one centre cargo oil tank shall not exceed 50,000 cubic metres, in segregated ballast oil tankers as defined in regulation 18 the permitted volume of a wing cargo oil tank situated between two segregated ball ast tanks, each exceeding Lc in length may be increased to the maximum limit of hypothetical oil outflow provided that the width of the wing tanks exceeds tc, where tc is defined in the Seventh Schedule of these Regulations.
(5) The length of each cargo tank shall not exceed 10 metres or one of the following v alues, whichever is the greater - 36 (a) where no longitudinal bulkhead is provided inside the cargo tanks, the lesser of - (i) and (ii) 0.2L (b) where a centreline longitudinal bulkhead is provided inside the cargo tanks -  (c) where two or more longitudinal bulkheads are provided inside the cargo tanks - (i) for wing cargo tanks - 0.2L (ii) for centre cargo tanks - (A) if- is equa l to or greater than one fifth - 0.2L (B) if- is less than one fifth - where no centreline lo ngitudinal bulkhead is provided - (0.5 where a centreline longitudina l bulkhead is provided - (0.25 (6) In this sub regulation bi is the minimum distance from the ships side to the outer longitudinal bulkhead of the tank in question measured inboard at right angles to the centreline at the level corresponding to the assigned summer freeboard.
(7) In order not to exceed the volume limits established under sub regulation (5) of this regulation and irrespective of the type of cargo t ransfer system installed, when such a system inter -connects two or more cargo tanks, valves or other similar closing devices shall be provided for separ ating the tanks from each other and these valves or devices shall be closed when the tanker is at sea.
37 (8) Lines of piping which run through cargo tanks in a position less than tc from the ships side or less than Vs from the ships bottom, where Vs is defined in the appropriate Schedules to these Regulations, shall be fitted with valves or similar closing devices at the point at whic h they open into any cargo tank and t hese valves shall be kept closed at sea at any time when the tanks contain cargo oil, except that they may be opened for cargo transfer needed for the purpose of trimming of the ship.
Subdivision and stability 29.-(1) Every new oil tanker shall comply with the subdivision and damage stability criteria specified in the Eight Schedule of these Regulations (2) The master of every new oil tanker and the person in charge of a new non -self-propelled oil tanker to which these Regulations apply shal l be supplied by the owner with - (a) information relating to loading and distribution of cargo necessary to ensure compliance with the provision of this regulation and (b) data on the ability of the ship to comply with the damage stability criteria prescribed by this regulation, including the effect of any lesser requirements that may have been imposed by the Registrar of Ships .
(3) The information and data referred to under sub regulation (2) (a) and (b) of this regulation, shall be supplied in an approved form as the Registrar of Ships may determine .
PART SIX IMPROVED REQUIREMENTS FOR THE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF OIL TANKERS AGAINST OIL POLLUTION IN THE EVENT OF COLLISION OR STRANDING New oil tankers (building contracts after 5th July 1993) 30.-(1) This regulation applies to oil tankers of 600 tons deadweight and above - (a) for which the building contract is plac ed on or after 6th July 1993 (b) in the absence of a building contract, the keel of which is laid 38 or which is at a similar stage of construction on or after 6th January 1994 (c) the delivery of which is on or after 6th July 1996 or (d) which h as undergone a major conversion - (i) for which the co ntract i s placed after 6th July 1993 (ii) in the absence of a contract, the construction work of which is begun after 6th January 1994 or (iii) which is completed after 6th July 1996.
(2) Subject to sub regulations (4) and (5) of this regulation , every oil tanker of 5,000 tons deadweight and above shall comply with the requirements of sub regulation (3) and, in the case of an oil tanker in respect of which regulation 19 makes provision, compliance with the specified requirements of sub regulation (3) of this regulation, shall be instead of compliance with the requirements of that regulation.
(3) The entire cargo tank length shall be protected by ballast tanks or spaces other than cargo and fuel oil tanks, in accordance with the requirements set out in the Ninth Schedule of these Regulations.
(4) The d ouble bottom tanks or spaces as required by sub regulation (3) may be dispensed with, if the design of the tanker meets the conditions set out in the Tenth Schedule of these Regulations .
(5) Instead of complying with the requirements of sub regulation (3) or (4) of this regulation , an oil tanker referred to in sub regulation (2) may conform to other methods of design and construct ion, provided that such methods - (a) ensure at least the same level of protection against oil pollution in the event of collision or stranding and (b) have the approval of the Registrar of Ships based on guidelines developed by the Organisation.
39 (6) In an oil tanker to which this regulation applies, oil shall not be carried in any space extending forward of a collision bulkhead , and a n oil tanker which is not required to have a collision bulkhead shall not carry oil in any space extending forward of the transverse plane perpendicular to the centerline that is located as if i t were a collision bulkhead.
(7) In approving the design and construction of an oil tanker to which this regulation applies, the Certifying Authority shall have due regard to general safety considerations including the need for the maintenance of and for inspections of wing and double bo ttom tanks or spaces .
Existing oil Tankers (building contracts before 6th July 1993) 31.-(1) Subject to sub regulation s (2) and (3), this regulation applies to every crude oil tanker of 20,000 tons deadweight and above and to every product carrier of 30,0 00 tons deadweight and above - (a) for which the building contract was placed before 6th July 1993 or (b) in the absence of a building contract, the keel of which is laid or which is at a similar stage of construction be fore 6th January 1994 or (c) the delivery of which was before 6th July 1996.
(2) This regulation does not apply (or, having applied, shall cease to apply) to a crude oil tanker or product carrier which ha s undergone a major conversion - (a) for which the contract is placed after 6th July 1993 or (b) in the absence of a contract, the construction work of which is begun after 6th January 1994 or (c) which is completed after 6th July 1996.
(3) This regulation does not apply (or, having applied, shall cease to apply) to an oil tanker which, although not required to comply with the requirements of regulation 30 - 40 (a) does in fact comply with - (i) the requirements of the Ninth Schedule of these Regulations  or (ii) those requirements as modified in accordance with the Tenth Schedule of these Regulations.
or (b) conforms to other methods of design and construction which satisfy the requirements of regulation 30(5) of these Regulations, and, for the purposes of this regulation, an oil tanker which does not meet in all respects the requirements mentioned in sub -paragraph (a) or (b) as regards minimum distances between the cargo tank boundaries and the ship side and bottom plating shall be treated a s meeting those requirements if - (i) the side protection distance is not less than that which the IBC Code specifies for Type 2 cargo tank location (that is to say, the said distance is nowhere less than 760mm from the shell plating) and (ii) the bottom protection distance is not less than the lesser of B/15 and 2 metres.
(4) In subparagr aph (i ) of sub regulation (3) , IBC Code means the International Code for the Construction and Equipment of Ships Carrying Dangerous Chemicals in Bulk (1994 Edition) published by the Organization and includes any document amending it which is considered r elevant by the Registrar of Ships and is specified in the appropriate Schedules to these Regul ations .
(5) An oil tanker t o which this regulation applies - (a) if it is a Tanzania Zanzibar ship, shall be subject to an enhanced programme of inspections during renewal, annual, and intermediate surveys conducted pursuant to these R egulations and 41 (b) if it is not a Tanzania Zanzibar ship, shall have undergone periodical, intermediate and annual surveys as provided for by the Convention, and the scope of such surveys shall at least comply (if the tanker is a Tanzania Zanzibar ship) or have complied (if the tanker is not a Tanzania Zanzibar ship) with guidelines developed by the Organization pursuant to regulation 13G(3)(a) of the Conventio n.
(6)An oil tanker to which this regulation applies and which is over five years of age shall carry on board a complete file containing the reports or copies of the reports on surveys of t he ship carried out pursuant to - (a) the requirements of these Regul ations (if the tanker is a Tanzania Zanzibar ship) and (b) the requirements of the Convention (if the tanker is not a Tanzania Zanzibar ship) and the file shall contain the results of all scantling measurement required and a statement of all structural wor k carried out and sha ll be available for inspection - (i) if the tanker is a Tanzania Zanzibar ship, by the Certifying Authority, or by the competent authority of the Government of any State which is a party to the Convention and (ii) if the tanker is not a Tanzania Zanzibar ship, by a Certifying Authority.
(7) The file shall be accompanied by a condition evaluation report containing conclusions on the structural condition of the ship and its residual scantlings, and endorsed to indicate tha t it is consider ed satisfactory - (a) if the tanker is a Tanzania Zanzibar ship, by the Certifying Authority and (b) if the tanker is not a Tanzania Zanzibar ship, by or on behalf of the Government of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly.
42 (8) The file and condition evaluation reports shall be prepared in a standard format in accordance with guidelines developed by the Organization pursuant to the said regulation 13G(3)(a) of the Convention.
(9) An oil tanker - (a) which is not a new oil tanker and (b) to which this regulation still applies immediately before the expiration of 25 years from the date on which it was delivered, shall on the expiration of that period become subject to the provisions of regulation 30(5), (6) and (7), subparagraphs 1.1 to 1.7 of the Ninth and the Tenth Schedule s of these Regulations, and this regulation shall cease to apply to it.
(10)Any new ballast and load conditions resulting from the application of sub regulation (5) shall, where the oil tanker is a Tanzania Zanzibar ship, be s ubject to the approval of the Certifying Authority, and the Certifying Authority shall have particular regard to the longitudinal and local strength, intact stability and, if applicable, damage stability.
(11) Other structural or operational arrangement s may be accepted as alternatives to the requirements of sub regulation (5) if the alternative arrangements ensure at least the same level of protection against oil pollution in the event of collision or stranding and have the approval of the Registrar of Ships (in the case of a Tanzania Zanzibar ship) or of the Government of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly (in the case of a ship other than a Tanzania Zanzibar ship) based on guidelines developed by the Organization pursuant to regulation 13G(7) of the Convention.
PART SEVEN OFFSHORE INSTALLATIONS Requirements for Offshore Installations 32.-(1) Offshore installations, when engaged in the exploration, exploitation and associated offshore processing of sea bed mineral resources, shall comply with the requirements of these Regulations applicable to ships of 400 GT and above other than oil tankers, notwithstanding that the installations are not proc eeding on a voyage, except that - 43 (a) they shall be equipped as far as practicable with the systems and tanks required by regulations 14 and 25(1) and (2) of these Regulations  and (b) they shall keep a record of all operations involving oil or oily mixture discharges, in an approved form.
(2) Unless the discharge is one specified in regulation 11, an offshore installation when so engaged shall not discharge into the sea any oil or oily mixture with an oil content of 15ppm or more.
(3) For the purpose of th is regula tion- (a) offshore installation means any mobile or fixed drilling or production platform or any other platform used in connection with the exploration, exploitation or associated offshore processing of sea bed mineral resources and (b) oil or oily mixtures means discharge associated with platform drainage and does not include production or displacement water discharge.
PART EIGHT PREVENTION OF POLLUTION ARISING FROM AN OIL POLLUTION INCIDENT Shipboard oil pollution emergency plan 33.-(1) Every oil tanker of 150 GT and above and every ship (not being an oil tanker) of 400 GT and above shall carry on board an approved shipboard oil pollution emergency plan.
(2) The plan shall be in accordance with the guidelines for the development of shipboard oil pollution emergency plans adopted by the Marine Environment Protection Committee of the Organization on 6th March 1992 by Resolution MEPC 54(32) and includes any document amending it which is considered by the Registrar of Ships to be releva nt from time to time and is specifie d in the appropriate Schedules to these Regulations , and the plan shall include at least - (a) the procedure to be followed by the master or other persons having charge of the ship to report an oil pollution incident 44 (b) the list of persons (including national and local authorities) to be contacted in the event of an oil pollution incident (c) a detailed description of the action to be taken immediately by persons on board to reduce or control the discharge of oil following an i ncident and (d) the procedures and point of contact on the ship for co - ordinating shipboard action with national and local authorities in combating the pollution.
PART NINE POWERS TO INSPECT, DENY ENTRY, DETENTION AND PENALTIES Power to Inspect 34.-(1) A ship to which these Regulations apply shall be subject, in any port or offshore terminal in Zanzibar , to inspections by persons appointed by the Registrar of Ships .
(2)Any such inspection shall be limited to verifying that there is on board a valid IOPP Certificate in the form prescribed by the Convention in a form prescribed by the Registrar of Ships , unless there are clear grounds for believing that the condition of the ship or its equipment does not correspond substantially with the particulars o f that Certificate.
(3) In case, or if the ship does not carry a valid certificate, the inspector shall take such steps as he may consider necessary to ensure that the ship shall not sail until it can proceed to sea without presenting an unreasonable th reat of harm to the marine environment and the Registrar of Ships may in such a case permit the ship to leave the port or offshore terminal for the purposes of proceeding to the nearest appropriate repair yard.
(4)Notwithstanding sub regulation (2) of this regulation , and without prejudice to any specific control provisions over operational procedures provided for in these Regulations, the inspector may investigate any operation regulated by these Regulations if there are clear grounds for believing that the master or crew are not familiar with essential ship board procedures for preventing pollution by oil.
45 (5) In the event of any inspection revealing deficiencies the Inspector shall take such steps as to ensure that the ship will not sail until the situation has been brought to order in accordance with the requirements of these Regulations.
(6) Upon receiving evidence that a particular ship has discharged oil or an oily mixture contrary to the provisions of these Regulations the Registrar of Sh ips shall cause the matter to be investigated and shall inform the State which has reported the contravention, as well as the Organisation, of the action taken.
Power to deny entry or detain 35.-(1) If author master has reason to believe that a ship w hich he believes proposes to enter the author does not comply with the requirements of these Regulations, he shall immediately report the matter to the Registrar of Ships who, if he is satisfied that the ship presents an unreasonable threat of harm to the marine environment, may deny the entry of such ship to any port or offshore terminal in Zanzibar .
(2) In any case where a ship to which these Regulations apply is suspected of a contravention of the requirements of these Regulations, the ship shall be liable to be detained.
(3)Where the steps taken by an inspector under regulation 34 involve detention of the ship, or in the event of detention under this regulation, then the provisions of the Act which relates to the detention of a ship , shall have effect in relation to the ship .
(4) Where a ship other than a Tanzania Zanzibar ship is - (a) denied entry pursuant to sub regulation (1) (b) detained pursuant to sub regulation (2) or (c) detained pursuant to regulation 37(3) the Registrar of Ships shall immediately inform the consul or diplomatic representative of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly or the appropriate maritime authorities of that State.
46 Penalties 36.-(1) If any ship fails to comply with any requirement of these Regulations the owner and the master of the ship commits an offence and shall , upon summary conviction, be liable to be punished as prescribed under the Act.
(2) It shall be a defence for a person charged under sub regulation (1) of this regulation to show that he took all reasonable precautions and exercised all due diligence to avoid the commission of the offence.
(3) Where an offence under this regulation is committed, or would have been committed by any person due to the act or default of some oth er person, that other person shall be guilty of the offence, and a person may be charged with and convicted of an offence by virtue of this regulation whether or not proceedings are taken against the first -mentioned person.
Suspension of proceedings at flag state request 37.-(1) This regulation relates to an alleged offence of contravening regulation 12, 13 or 16 of these Regulations, by a ship which is not a Tanzania Zanzibar ship, in relation to a discharge outside the United Republic of Tanzania or its territorial waters.
(2) Any proceedings for such an offence shall be stayed if the Court is satisfied that the flag state has instituted proceedings corresponding to the proceedings in Zanzibar in respect of the discharge, within six months of the institution of proceedings in the Zanzibar .
(3) Sub regulation (1) of this regulation shall not apply - (a) where the discharge resulted in major damage to the Zanzibar  or (b) the Registrar of Ships certif ies that the flag state has repeatedly disregarded its obligation to enforce effectively the requirements of the Convention in respect of its ships.
(4) Where proceedings instituted by the flag state have been brought to a conclusion, the suspended proce edings shall be terminated.
(5) Where the costs of the Registrar of Ships incurred in respects of proceedings suspended under sub regulation (2) of this regulation, have been paid, any money paid or security given under regulation 37 of these Regulations shall be released.
47 Compounding of offences 38.-(1) Notwithstanding any other law, where a ship or master violates any provision of these Regulation, the Registrar of Ships may serve on that ship or master a notice in the specified form, calling upon such ship or master to pay in respect of the offence, the amount of fines so specified with the offence alleged to have been committed.
(2) The notice under sub regulation (1) of this regulation, shall specify (a) name and registration number of the ship (b) the offence alleged to have been committed (c) place and tim e upon which the offence has occurred (d) actual amount of fine so specified for that offence (e) time and manner in which the fine should be paid and (f) any other particular or information relating to that offence when the Registrar of Ship s may think necessary.
(3) The ship or master served with a notice under sub regulation (1) of this regulation shall, within seven days from the date in which the notice has been delivered to him, pay the amount of fine to the Authority.
(4) Where a ship or master has been s erved with a notice under sub regulation (1) of this regulation, fails to pay such a fine within the time limit specified in the notice, the Authority shall proceeds with criminal action against such a ship or master.
(5) When the ship or master pay the amount of fine so specified in the notice, no further criminal actions relating to the same offence shall be taken against the ship or master.
48 SIGNED on this 12 day of February , 201 9.
DR.SIRA UBWA MAMBOYA MINISTER OF INFRASTRUCTURE, COMMUNICATION AND TRANSPORTATION 49 THE FIRST SCHEDULE

Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 1 GOVERNMENT NOTICE No.
371 published on 17/5/2024 THE MERCHANT SHIPPING ACT, (CAP.
165)  REGULATIONS  (Made under section 376(2) (e) and 427) THE MERCHANT SHIPPING (PREVENTION OF POLLUTION BY SEWAGE FROM SHIPS) REGULATIONS, 2024 ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS Regulation Title PART I PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS 1.
Citation.
Application.
Interpretation.
Ambulatory reference.
PART II DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE 5.
Prohibition on the discharge of sewage.
PART III EQUIPMENT AND CONTROL OF DISCHARGE 6.
Sewage systems.
Discharge connections.
Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 2 PART IV SURVEY AND CERTIFICATION OF SHIPS 8.
Surveys.
Issue or endorsement of Certificate.
Issue or endorsement of Certificates by another Party 11.
Issue or endorsement of Certificate of another Government.
Form of Certificate.
Duration and validity of Certificate.
Prohibition on a Tanzanian ship proceeding to sea without a Sewage Certificate.
Prohibition on a non-Tanzanian ship proceeding to sea.
Responsibilities of owner and master of a Tanzanian ship.
Miscellaneous provisions relating to Sewage Certificate.
PART V ENFORCEMENT 18.
Inspection of ships.
Provision on detention.
Power of Harbour Master to detain ship.
Duty of Harbour Master to report deficient ship.
PART VI OFFENCES AND PENALTIES 22.
Offences and penalties.
General penalty.
PART VII GENERAL PROVISIONS 24.
Complaints handling.
Evaluation and reporting.
SCHEDULES  Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 3 THE MERCHANT SHIPPING ACT, (CAP.
165)  REGULATIONS  (Made under section 376(2) (e) and 427) THE MERCHANT SHIPPING (PREVENTION OF POLLUTION BY SEWAGE FROM SHIPS) REGULATIONS, 2024 PART I PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS Citation 1.
These Regulations may be cited as the Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution by Sewage from Ships) Regulations, 2024.
Application 2.-(1) These Regulations shall apply in implementation of Annex IV of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978.
(2) Without prejudice to subregulation (1), and subject to subregulations (3), these Regulations shall apply to- (a) the Tanzanian ship of 400 GT, wherever it may be, engaged in an international voyage (b) the Tanzanian ship operating in polar waters (c) non-Tanzanian ship of 400 GT while it is within the United Republic waters or controlled waters and engaged in an international voyage and (d) a ship of less than 400 GT which is certified to carry more than 15 persons (3) These Regulations shall not apply to- (a) warship (b) naval auxiliary ship (c) other ship owned or operated by the Government and used, for the time being, for non-commercial services of the Government or (d) ship of less than 400 GT carries less than 15 persons.
Interpretation 3.
In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires- passenger means any person carried on a ship except- (a) a person employed or engaged in any capacity on the business of the ship (b) a person on board the ship either in pursuance of the obligation laid upon the master to carry shipwrecked, distressed or other persons, or by reason of any circumstance that neither the master nor the owner nor the charterer, if any, could have prevented or forestalled and (c) a child under one year of age Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 4 sea includes any estuary or arm of the sea Sewage Certificate means an International Sewage Pollution Prevention Certificate special area means a sea area where for recognised technical reasons in relation to its oceanographical and ecological condition and to the particular character of its traffic, the adoption of special mandatory methods for the prevention of sea pollution by sewage is required IMO means the International Maritime Organisation GN.
No.
196 of 2005 GT means a Gross Tonnage of a ship determined in accordance with the Merchant Shipping (Tonnage) Regulations Polar Code means the International Code for Ships Operating in Polar Waters, as defined under regulation XIV/1.1 of SOLAS Annex IV means Annex IV to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973 as modified offshore terminal means an installation situated away from the shore, where bulk, fluid or gas cargo are transferred between ships by- (a) loading onto a ship after having been transported from the shoreline or (b) unloading from a ship for transporting to the shoreline  from the nearest land means the baseline from which the territorial sea of the territory in question is established in accordance with international law, except that, for the purpose of the Convention from the nearest land off the north-eastern coast of Australia shall mean from a line drawn from a point on the coast of Australia in latitude 1100 S, longitude 14208 E to a point in latitude 1035 S, longitude 14155 E, thence to a point latitude 1000 S, longitude 14200 E, thence to a point latitude 910 S, longitude 14352 E, thence to a point latitude 900 S, longitude 14430 E, thence to a point latitude 1041 S, longitude 14500 E, thence to a point latitude 1300 S, longitude 14500 E, thence to a point latitude 1500 S, longitude 14600 E, thence to a point latitude 1730 S, longitude 14700 E, thence to a point latitude 2100 S, longitude 15255 E, thence to a point latitude 2430 S, longitude 15400 E, thence to a point on the coast of Australia in latitude 2442 S, longitude 15315 E.
nautical mile means an international nautical mile of 1,852 metres controlled waters means the areas of sea of waters within which the jurisdiction and rights of the United Republic are exercisable in accordance with Part XII of UNCLOS polar waters means Arctic waters or the Antarctic area, as defined in paragraphs 2 to 4 of regulation 1 of Chapter XIV (XIV/1.2 to XIV/1.4) of SOLAS sewage means- (a) drainage and other wastes from any form of toilets and urinals (b) drainage from medical premises including dispensary and sick bay, a wash basin, wash tubs and scuppers located in such premises (c) drainage from spaces containing living animals or (d) other waste waters when mixed with the drainages referred in paragraph (a) (b) and (c) Tanzanian waters shall have the meaning ascribed to it under the Act MARPOL means the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973 as modified ship shall have the meaning ascribed to it under the Act passenger ship shall have the meaning ascribed to it under the Act Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 5 existing ship means a ship which is not a new ship new ship means a ship- (a) the keel of which was laid or (b) that has been substantially- (i) altered or (ii) reconstructed Tanzanian ship means a ship registered or licensed under the provisions of the Act at a port in the United Republic MEPC means the Marine Environment Protection Committee of IMO Cap.165 surveyor means a person appointed as surveyor under section 382(1) of the Act Convention means the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973 as modified Cap.166 Harbour Master means Harbour Master appointed under section 36 of the Tanzania Ports Act owner or a ship owner means, in respect of a registered ship, the registered owner and includes a demise charterer and a managing owner or a managing agent Cap.
415 Registrar means the Registrar appointed under section 31 of the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Act flag state in relation to a ship, means the State whose flag a ship is entitled to fly International voyage means a voyage from a port or place in the United Republic to a port or place outside the territorial limits of the United Republic, or conversely Cap.
165 Act means the Merchant Shipping Act Cap.
415 Corporation means the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Corporation established under section 4 the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Act recognised organisation means an Organisation that has been assessed by the Corporation and found to comply with the RO Code holding tank means a tank used for collection and storage of sewage date of expiry, in relation to a Sewage Certificate of a ship, means the last day of the period specified in that Sewage Certificate as the period for which that Certificate is valid direct replacement means the direct replacement of equipment and fittings with the equipment and fittings that conform with the relevant requirements which apply to that ship discharge in relation to sewage, means any release howsoever caused from a ship, and includes any escape, disposal, spilling, leakage, pumping, emitting or emptying UNCLOS means the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982 and Minister means the Minister responsible for maritime transport.
Ambulatory reference 4.-(1) Any reference in these Regulations, to the Convention, an Annex to the Convention or to the Polar Code is to be construed as- (a) a reference to the Convention, an Annex to the Convention or the Polar Code as modified from time to time and (b) a reference to the replacement where the Convention, an Annex to the Convention or the Polar Code are replaced.
(2) For the purpose of subregulation (1), the Convention, an Annex to the Convention or the Polar Code are modified or replaced where a modification or replacement takes effect in accordance with Article 16 of the Convention.
Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 6 (3) A modification or amendment of the Convection, an Annex to the Convention or the Polar Code has effect at the time such modification or replacement comes into force in accordance with Article 16 of the Convention.
PART II DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE Prohibition of discharge of sewage 5.-(1) The shipowner or master shall not discharge sewage from a ship other than a passenger ship in any area, except when- (a) the ship is discharging- (i) comminuted and disinfected sewage using a system approved by the Corporation in accordance with regulation 6, at a distance of more than 3 nautical miles from the nearest land (ii) sewage which is not comminuted or disinfected at a distance of more than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land (iii) sewage that has been stored in a holding tank, or sewage originating from spaces containing living animals, at a moderate rate when the ship is en route and proceeding at not less than 4 knots Provided that, the rate of discharge referred to under paragraph (a)(ii) and (iii) shall be approved by the Corporation based on the standards provided under the First Schedule or (b) the discharge referred to in paragraph (a) is implemented by a ship which has in operation an approved sewage treatment plant certified by the Corporation meeting the operational requirements referred to in regulation 6(1)(a), and the effluent shall not produce visible floating solids nor cause discolouration of the surrounding water.
(2) The provisions of subregulation (1), shall not apply to a ship operating in Tanzanian waters and visiting ships from other states while they are in these waters and are discharging sewage in accordance with such less stringent requirements as may be imposed by the United Republic.
(3) Subject to the provisions of subregulation (4), the discharge of sewage from a passenger ship within a special area is prohibited, except when- (a) the ship has in operation an approved sewage treatment plant which has been certified by the Administration to meet the operational requirements referred to in regulation 6(1)(a) and (b) the effluent shall not produce visible floating solids nor cause discolouration of the surrounding water.
(4) Where sewage referred to under this regulation mixed with waste or waste water with different discharge requirements under any other regulation, the strict conditions shall apply.
(5) The provisions of this regulation shall not apply in the case of- (a) a discharge of sewage which is necessary for the purpose of- (i) securing the safety of a ship and those on board the ship or (ii) saving life at sea (b) discharge of sewage- (i) which results from damage to a ship or its equipment and (ii) where all reasonable precautions have been taken Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 7 before and after the occurrence of the damage to prevent or minimise the discharge.
PART III EQUIPMENT AND CONTROL OF DISCHARGE Sewage Systems 6.-(1) A ship which, in accordance with regulation 2(2), is required to comply with the provisions of these Regulations shall be equipped with one of the following sewage systems (a) a sewage treatment plant of a type approved by the Corporation, taking into account the standards and test methods developed by IMO on the recommendation of international effluent standards and guidelines for performance tests for sewage treatment plants in accordance with resolution MEPC.2(VI) or (b) a sewage comminuting and disinfecting system approved by the Corporation and fitted with facilities for the temporary storage of sewage when the ship is less than 3 nautical miles from the nearest land.
(2) Subject to subregulation (1), a passenger ship which is required to comply with the provisions of these Regulations, and for which regulation 5(3), applies while in a special area, shall be equipped with one of the following sewage systems (a) a sewage treatment plant of a type approved by the Corporation, taking into account the standards and tests in accordance with resolution MEPC.2(VI) or (b) a holding tank of the capacity approved by the Corporation for the retention of all sewage, having regard to the operation of the ship, the number of persons on board and other relevant factors.
(3) A holding tank of the capacity for the retention of sewage, having regard to the operation of the ship, the number of persons on board and other relevant factors referred to under subregulations (1) (b) and (2) (b) shall be constructed and have the means to indicate visually the amount of its contents Discharge connections 7.-(1) The sewage discharge pipeline of a ship shall be fitted with a standard discharge connection to enable it to be connected to a reception facility pipe in accordance with the Standard Dimensions of flanges for discharge connections as prescribed under the Second Schedule.
(2) For a ship in dedicated trades such as passenger ferries, the ships discharge pipeline may be fitted with a discharge connection which can be accepted by the Corporation to be a quick-connection coupling.
PART IV SURVEY AND CERTIFICATION OF SHIPS Surveys 8.-(1) A ship which is required to comply with the provisions of these Regulations shall be subject to the surveys specified below (a) an initial survey before the ship is put in service or before the Certificate required under regulation 9, is issued for the first time, which shall include a complete survey of its structure, Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 8 equipment, systems, fittings, arrangements and material in so far as the ship is covered by these Regulations (b) a renewal survey at intervals specified by the Corporation, but not exceeding five years, except where regulation 13 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) and (8) of these Regulations is applicable Provided that, the survey referred to under paragraph (a) and (b) shall be such as to ensure that the structure, equipment, systems, fittings, arrangements and materials fully comply with applicable requirements of these Regulations and (c) an additional survey, either general or partial, according to the circumstances, shall be made after a repair resulting from investigations prescribed under subregulation (4), or whenever any important repairs or renewals are made Provided that, the survey referred to under paragraph (c) shall be such as to ensure that the necessary repairs or renewals have been effectively made, that the material and workmanship of such repairs or renewals are in all respects satisfactory and that the ship complies in all respects with the requirements of these Regulations.
GN.
No.
106 of 2006 (2) A ship which is not subject to the provisions of subregulation (1), shall comply with provisions of Merchant Shipping (Small Ships, Local Cargo Ship Safety, Small Ship Safety, Surveys and Inspections for Vessels Engaged on Local and Coastal Voyages, Inland Waters) Regulations.
(3) The surveyor may- (a) require repairs to a ship and (b) carry out surveys if requested by the appropriate authorities of a Port State.
(4) Where a surveyor determines that- (a) the condition of the ship or its equipment does not correspond substantially with the particulars of the Sewage Certificate or (b) the ship is not fit to proceed to sea without presenting an unreasonable threat of harm to the marine environment.
such surveyor shall immediately ensure that corrective action is taken and in due course notify the Corporation.
(5) Where corrective action referred to under subregulation (5) is not taken, the Sewage Certificate shall be suspended by the Corporation and if the ship is in a port of another Party to the Convention, by the appropriate authorities of the port state.
(6) Where the Corporation or recognised organisation or Certifying Authority suspends the validity of a Sewage Certificate issued in respect of a ship, it shall immediately give notice in writing of such suspension- (a) to the owner of the ship and (b) where the ship is in a port outside the United Republic, to the appropriate maritime authorities of the State in which the port is situated.
(7) Where an officer or surveyor of another Party to the Convention, has notified the Corporation in accordance with subregulation (6), the Corporation shall give such officer or surveyor any necessary assistance to carry out their obligations under this regulation.
(8) Subject to the provisions of subregulation (7) the Corporation shall when applicable, take such steps to ensure that the ship shall not sail until it can proceed to sea or leave the port for the purpose of proceeding to the nearest appropriate repair yard available without presenting an unreasonable threat of harm to the marine environment.
(9) The Corporation shall ensure that- (a) the condition of the ship and its equipment is maintained to Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 9 conform with the provisions of these Regulations and (b) the ship in all respects remains fit to proceed to sea without presenting an unreasonable threat of harm to the marine environment.
(10) After the completion of any survey under subregulation (1), no change shall be made in the structure, equipment, systems, fittings, arrangements or materials covered by the survey, without the sanction of the Corporation, except the direct replacement of such equipment and fittings.
(11) Where an accident occurs to a ship or a defect is discovered that substantially affects the integrity of the ship or the efficiency or completeness of its equipment covered by these Regulations, the master or owner of the ship shall report at the earliest opportunity to the Corporation or the recognised organisation responsible for issuing the relevant Certificate, who shall cause investigations to be initiated to determine whether a survey as required by subregulation (1) of this regulation is necessary.
(12) Where the ship referred to under subregulation (11), is in a port of another Party to the Convection, the master or owner shall report immediately to the appropriate authorities of the Port State and the Corporation or recognised organisation shall ascertain that such report has been made.
(13) In the case of a dispute as to whether a repair or renewal effected or intended to be affected in respect of a ship is an important repair or renewal for the purposes of this regulation, the owner or master of a ship may serve a written request to the Corporation seeking advice.
(14) A repair or renewal is not to be regarded as being an important repair or renewal for the purposes of this regulation unless the Corporation advises to the contrary within 21 days of receipt of a request under subregulation (13).
Issue or endorsement of Certificate 9.-(1) A Sewage Certificate shall be issued, after an initial or renewal survey in accordance with the provisions of regulation 8, to any ship which is engaged in voyages to ports or offshore terminals under the jurisdiction of other Parties to the Convention.
(2) A Certificate referred to under subregulation (1), shall be issued either by the Corporation or recognised organisation duly authorised by it and the Corporation or recognised organisation shall assume full responsibility for the Certificate.
(3) Subject to subregulation (2), a Certificate issued by a recognised organisation shall contain a statement to the effect that it has been issued at the request of the Government of the United Republic and it shall have the same force and receive the same recognition as the Certificate issued by the Corporation.
(4) A Sewage Certificate shall not be issued to a ship entitled to fly the flag of a State that is not a Party to the Convention.
Issue or endorsement of Certificate by another Party 10.-(1) The Corporation may request a Party to the Convention to survey a Tanzanian ship and, if the Party to the Convention is satisfied that the ship complies with the requirements of Annex IV to the Convention, issue, or authorise the issue of, a Sewage Certificate in respect of that ship and where appropriate, endorse or authorise the endorsement of that Certificate on the ship in accordance with that Annex.
(2) Where a Sewage Certificate is issued pursuant to subregulation (1)- (a) the Corporation shall be treated as the Certifying Authority in relation to it and Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 10 (b) any reference in these Regulations to the Certifying Authority who issued the Certificate is to be treated as a reference to the Corporation.
Issue or endorsement of a Certificate of another Government 11.-(1) The Corporation may, at the request of an Administration of another Party to the Convention, cause a ship to be surveyed and, if satisfied that the provisions of these Regulations and Annex IV of the Convention are complied with, shall issue or authorise the issue of a Sewage Certificate to the ship.
(2) A copy of the Certificate and a copy of the survey report shall be transmitted as soon as possible to the Administration requesting the survey.
(3) The Certificate referred to under subregulation (1) shall contain a statement to the effect that it has been issued at the request of that Administration and it shall have the same force and receive the same recognition as the Certificate issued under regulation 9.
Form of Certificate 12.-(1) A Sewage Certificate shall be in the manner prescribed in the Third Schedule.
(2) A Sewage Pollution Prevention Exemption Certificate for Unmanned Non-Self-Propelled Barges shall be in the manner prescribed in the Fourth Schedule.
Duration and validity of Certificate 13.-(1) The Sewage Certificate shall be issued for a period of five years from the date of issue.
(2) Notwithstanding the requirements of subregulation (1), when the renewal survey is completed- (a) within three months before the expiry date of the existing Certificate, the new Certificate shall be valid from the date of completion of the renewal survey to a date not exceeding five years from the date of expiry of the existing Certificate (b) after the expiry date of the existing Certificate, the new Certificate shall be valid from the date of completion of the renewal survey to a date not exceeding five years from the date of expiry of the existing Certificate (c) more than three months before the expiry date of the existing Certificate, the new Certificate shall be valid from the date of completion of the renewal survey to a date not exceeding five years from the date of completion of the renewal survey.
(3) Where a Certificate is issued for a period of less than five years, the Corporation may extend the validity of the Certificate beyond the expiry date to the maximum period specified under subregulation (1).
(4) Where a renewal survey has been completed and a new Certificate cannot be issued or placed on board before the expiry date of the existing Certificate, the Corporation may endorse the existing Certificate and such a Certificate shall be accepted as valid for a further period which shall not exceed five months from the expiry date.
(5) Where a ship at the time when the Certificate expires is not in a port or offshore terminal in which it is to be surveyed, the Corporation may, where it appears proper and reasonable, extend the period of validity of the Certificate but this extension shall be granted only for the purpose of allowing the ship to complete its voyage to the port in which it is to be surveyed.
(6) A Certificate shall not be extended for a period longer than three months, and a ship to which such extension is granted shall not, on its Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 11 arrival in the port in which it is to be surveyed, be entitled by virtue of such extension to leave that port without having a new Certificate and when the renewal survey is completed, the new Certificate shall be valid to a date not exceeding five years from the date of expiring of the existing Certificate before the extension was granted.
(7) A Certificate issued to a ship engaged on short voyages which has not been extended under the provisions of subregulations (5) and (6) may be extended by the Corporation for a period of grace of up to one month from the date of expiry stated on it and when the renewal survey is completed, the Certificate shall be valid to a date not exceeding five years from the date of expiry of the exiting Certificate before the extension was granted.
(8) In special circumstances and as may be determined by the Corporation, a new Certificate may not be dated from the date of expiry of the existing Certificate as required under subregulation (2)(b), (5) or (7) and such new Certificate shall be valid to a date not exceeding five years from the date of completion of the renewal survey.
(9) A Certificate issued under these Regulations, shall cease to be valid in the following cases (a) where significant alterations have taken place in the equipment, fittings, arrangement or material of the ship required without the approval of the Corporation, except the direct replacement of such equipment or fittings.
(b) where the relevant surveys are not completed within the periods specified under regulation 8(1) of these Regulations or (c) Upon transfer of the ship to a flag of another State.
(10) The Corporation shall issue a new Certificate to a transferred ship only when fully satisfied that the ship is in compliance with the requirements of regulations 8(9) and (10).
(11) In the case of a transfer of a Tanzanian ship to a Party to the Convention, if requested within 3 months after the survey has taken place, the Corporation shall within a month, transmit to the other Administration copies of the Certificate carried by the ship being transferred and if available, copies of the relevant survey reports.
(12) Upon transfer of a ship to the Tanzanian flag, the Certificate of the transferred ship shall remain in force for a period not exceeding five months, provided that it would not have expired before the end of that period, or until the Corporation issues a replacement Certificate, whichever is earlier.
(13) Subject to subregulation (9)(c) the Corporation shall request a copy of the Certificate carried by the ship immediately before the transfer has taken place from the government of the party whose flag the ship was formerly entitled to fly and if available a copy of the relevant survey report.
Prohibition on a Tanzanian ship proceeding to sea without a Sewage Certificate 14.-(1) Subject to regulation 21(2), a Tanzanian ship to which these Regulations applies shall not- (a) proceed to sea or (b) if it is already at sea, remain at sea, (2) unless- (a) an initial survey or a renewal survey has been carried out in respect of the ship and (b) a Sewage Certificate has been issued in respect of that ship and is still valid.
Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 12 Prohibition on a non-Tanzanian ship proceeding to sea 15.-(1) A ship of a state party to the convention shall not proceed to sea from a port in the United Republic unless- (a) a Sewage Certificate has been issued pursuant to Annex IV in respect of that ship and is still valid (b) a surveyor is satisfied that the ship can proceed to sea without presenting an unreasonable threat of harm to the marine environment or (c) a person having powers to detain the ship has permitted the ship to proceed to sea for the purposes of proceeding to the nearest appropriate repair yard available.
Responsibilities of owner and master of a Tanzanian ship 16.
An owner and a master of a Tanzanian ship shall ensure that- (a) the condition of the ship and its equipment is maintained and, in all respects, remains fit to proceed to sea without presenting an unreasonable threat of harm to the marine environment (b) after any survey of the ship required by this Part has been completed, no change, except by way of direct replacement, is made to the structure, equipment, systems, fittings, arrangements or material of that ship, without the approval of the Corporation and (c) where an accident occurs or a defect is discovered in a Tanzanian ship, which substantially affects the integrity of the ship, the efficiency or completeness of the equipment of the ship required under Part III (i) the accident or defect is reported at the earliest opportunity to the Corporation or recognised organisation that issued the Sewage Certificate in respect of the ship and (ii) in the case of a ship in a port outside of the United Republic, the accident or the defect, as is immediately reported to the appropriate maritime authorities in the State in which the port is situated.
Miscellaneous provisions relating to Sewage Certificate 17.-(1) The Corporation may cancel a Sewage Certificate issued in respect of a Tanzanian ship where there is reason to believe that- (a) the Sewage Certificate was issued on false or erroneous information or (b) since the completion of any survey required by these Regulations, the structure, equipment, systems, fittings, arrangements and material of the ship has sustained damage or is otherwise deficient.
(2) The Corporation may require the surrender of a Sewage Certificate issued to a Tanzanian ship where that Certificate has expired, suspended or cancelled.
(3) A direction given by the Corporation under subregulation (2) may specify that a Sewage Certificate shall be surrendered within such time and in such manner as the Corporation may direct.
(4) In relation to a Tanzanian ship, no person shall- (a) intentionally alter a Sewage Certificate, unless permitted to do so under these Regulations (b) intentionally make a false Sewage Certificate (c) knowingly or recklessly provide false information in connection with a survey required under these Regulations (d) with intent to deceive, use or lend a Sewage Certificate or permit a Sewage Certificate to be used by another person or Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 13 (e) refuse to surrender a Sewage Certificate when required to do so under subregulation (2).
(5) The owner and master of a ship, in respect of which a Sewage Certificate has been issued, shall ensure that such Certificate is readily available on board the ship for examination at all times, except where it has been surrendered pursuant to subregulation (2).
(6) A person who contravene the subregulation (4) and (5), commits an offence and, on conviction shall be liable to a fine of not less than the equivalent in Tanzania Shillings of United States Dollar one thousand or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both.
PART V ENFORCEMENT Inspection of ships 18.-(1) The power to inspect a ship and its equipment, any part of the ship, any articles on board and any document carried in the ship, is limited to- (a) verifying whether sewage has been discharged from the ship in violation of these Regulations (b) investigating any operation regulated by these Regulations, if there is clear ground for believing that the master or the crew are not familiar with essential shipboard procedures for preventing pollution by sewage (c) verifying whether a Sewage Certificate has been issued in respect of the ship and is still valid or (d) verifying whether appropriate documentation has been issued in respect of the ship and is still valid (2) The power to go on board a ship to carry out inspections may only be exercised if the ship is- (a) in a port in the United Republic (b) at an offshore terminal in Tanzanian waters or controlled waters (c) a fixed platform in Tanzanian waters or controlled waters or (d) a floating platform in Tanzanian waters or controlled waters, other than a floating platform which is in transit.
(3) Where the ship is inspected for purposes of subregulation (1)(a) and is not a Tanzanian ship, the person exercising the powers of inspection shall ensure that the report of the inspection is sent to (a) a diplomatic representative of the ships flag state or the appropriate maritime authorities of that State and (b) any other party to the Convention who requested the inspection.
Provisions on detention 19.-(1) Where a surveyor of ships has clear grounds for believing that- (a) a Sewage Certificate is required to have been issued in respect of a ship but has not been issued, or has been issued but is not valid (b) appropriate documentation is required to have been issued in respect of a ship but has not been issued, or has been issued but is not valid (c) the condition of a ship or its equipment does not correspond substantially with the particulars of that Certificate or other Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 14 appropriate documentation (d) the master or crew of a ship is not familiar with essential shipboard procedures relating to the prevention of pollution by sewage or (e) an offence under regulation 22(2)(d) is being committed in respect of a ship, the ship is liable to be detained until a surveyor of ships is satisfied that it can proceed to sea without presenting an unreasonable threat of harm to the marine environment.
(2) Notwithstanding subregulation (1), a person having powers to detain a ship may permit a ship which is liable to be detained under subregulation (1), to proceed to sea for the purpose of proceeding to the nearest appropriate repair yard available.
(3) The power under this regulation to detain a ship may only be exercised if the ship is (a) in a port in the United Republic (b) at an offshore terminal in Tanzanian waters or controlled waters (c) a fixed platform in Tanzanian waters or controlled waters or (d) a floating platform in Tanzanian waters or controlled waters, other than a floating platform which is in transit.
(4) The provisions of section 409 of the Act, except for subsection (7), shall apply where a ship is liable to be detained under the preceding provisions of this regulation as if references to detention of a ship under the Act were references to detention of the ship in question under the preceding provisions of this regulation.
(5) Where a ship is liable to be detained under this regulation, the person detaining the ship shall serve on the master of the ship a detention notice which shall- (a) states the grounds for the detention and (b) requires the terms of the notice to be complied with until the ship is released by any person mentioned in section 383(1) of the Act.
(6) Where a ship other than a Tanzanian ship is detained, the Corporation shall immediately inform a diplomatic representative of the ships flag State or the appropriate maritime authorities of that State.
(7) Where a ship is detained under subregulation (3), a person having power to detain the ship shall, at the request of the owner, manager, demise charterer or master, immediately release the ship (a) if no proceeding for an offence under regulation 22(2)(d) is instituted within the period of seven days beginning with the day on which the ship is detained (b) if proceeding for an offence under regulation 24(2)(d) having been instituted within that period, is concluded without the owner, manager, demise charterer or master being convicted (c) if either- (i) the sum of the equivalent in Tanzanian shillings of the United States dollars one hundred and fifty thousand is paid to the Minister by way of security or (ii) security which, in the opinion of the Minister, is satisfactory and is for an amount not less than the equivalent in Tanzanian shillings of the United States dollars fifty thousand is given to the Minister by or on behalf of the master or owner (d) upon conviction the owner, manager, demise charterer or Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 15 master has paid fine, costs or expenses ordered to be paid by that person or (e) the release is ordered by a court or tribunal referred to in Article 292 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 1982 in its acronym UNCLOS, and any bond or other financial security ordered by such court or tribunal is posted.
(8) The Minister shall repay any sum paid in pursuance of subregulation (7)(c) or release any security so given, where- (a) no proceeding for an offence under regulation 22(2)(d) is instituted within the period of seven days beginning with the day on which the sum is paid or (b) the proceeding for that offence, having been instituted within that period, is concluded without the owner, manager, demise charterer or master being convicted.
(9) Where a sum has been paid, or security has been given, by any person in pursuance of subregulation 7(c) and the owner, manager, demise charterer or master is convicted of an offence under regulation 22(2)(d) , the sum so paid or the amount made available under the security shall be applied as follows (a) first in payment of any costs or expenses ordered by the court to be paid by the owner, manager, demise charterer or master and (b) next in payment of any fine imposed by the court, and the balance shall be repaid to the person paying the sum, or giving the security.
Power of Harbour Master to detain ship 20.-(1) Where the Harbour Master of a port in the United Republic has clear grounds for believing that an offence has been committed under regulation 22(2)(d) by the discharge from a ship of sewage into the waters of the port, the harbour master may detain the ship.
Cap.
166 (2) The provisions of section 55(4) of the Ports Act shall apply to detention under subregulation (1) as they apply to a refusal to grant port clearance.
(3) Where a ship is liable to be detained under this regulation, the Harbour Master detaining the ship shall serve on the master of the ship a detention notice which- (a) states the grounds for the detention and (b) requires the terms of the notice to be complied with until the ship is released by the harbour authority.
(4) Where a ship is detained under this regulation, the harbour master shall immediately release the ship where (a) no proceeding for an offence under regulation 22(2)(d) is instituted within the period of seven days beginning with the day on which the ship is detained (b) proceeding for an offence under regulation 22(2)(d), having been instituted within that period, is concluded without the owner, manager, demise charterer or master being convicted (c) if either- (i) the sum of the equivalent in Tanzanian shillings of the United States dollars one hundred and fifty thousand is paid to the Minister by way of security or (ii) security which, in the opinion of the Minister, is satisfactory and is for an amount not less than the equivalent in Tanzanian shillings of the United States dollars fifty thousand is given to the Minister by or on Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 16 behalf of the master or owner (d) upon conviction the owner, manager, demise charterer or master has paid fine, costs or expenses ordered to be paid by that person or (e) the release is ordered by a court or tribunal referred to in Article 292 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 1982 in its acronym UNCLOS, and any bond or other financial security ordered by such court or tribunal is posted.
(5) The Minister shall repay any sum paid in pursuance of subregulation 4(c) or release any security so given (a) if no proceeding for an offence under regulation 22(2)(d), is instituted within the period of seven days beginning with the day on which the sum is paid or (b) if a proceeding for an offence under regulation 22(2)(d), having been instituted within that period, is concluded without the owner, manager, demise charterer or master being convicted.
(6) Where a sum has been paid, or security has been given, by any person in pursuance of subregulation (4)(c), and the owner, manager, demise charterer or master is convicted of an offence under regulation 22(2)(d), the sum paid for the amount made available under the security shall be applied as follows (a) first in payment of any costs or expenses ordered by the court to be paid by the owner, manager, demise charterer or master and (b) next in payment of any fine imposed by the court, and any balance shall be repaid to the first-mentioned person.
Duty of Harbour Master to report deficient ship 21.
The Harbour Master of a port in the United Republic shall immediately notify the Corporation if the harbour master has reason to believe that a ship is about to enter or leave the port and does not comply with the requirements of these Regulations.
PART VI OFFENCES AND PENALTIES Offences and penalties 22.-(1) A ship owner and a master who- (a) discharges sewage from a ship other than passenger ship in any area or discharges sewage from a passenger ship outside a special area contrary to regulation 5 (b) causes a ship to proceed to sea without- (i) having a new Sewage Certificate contrary to regulation 13(6) (ii) carrying out an initial survey or a renewal survey in respect of the ship or having a valid Sewage Certificate contrary to regulation 14 (iii) permission of a surveyor or a person having powers to detain the ship and documentation contrary to regulation 15 (iv) ensuring that the condition of the ship and its equipment is maintained to conform with the provisions of Part III of these Regulations and fit to proceed to sea without presenting an unreasonable threat of harm to the marine environment contrary to regulation 16 Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 17 (v) reporting an accident or defect at the earliest opportunity to- (aa) the Corporation or recognised organisation that issued the Sewage Certificate in respect of a Tanzanian ship or (bb) the appropriate maritime authority in the case of the ship being in a port outside the United Republic, contrary to regulation (vi) having a survey report expressing the satisfaction required under these Regulations commits an offence and on conviction shall be liable, to a fine of not less than the equivalent in Tanzania Shillings of United States Dollar one thousand or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both.
(2) A ship owner who fails to comply with the requirements of having- (a) a sewage treatment plant approved by the Corporation contrary to regulation 6(1)(a) and (2)(a) (b) a sewage comminuting and disinfecting system and fitted with facilities approved by the Corporation contrary to regulation 6(1)(b) and 2(b) (c) a holding tank of the capacity for the retention of all sewage indicating visually the amount of its contents contrary to regulation 6(3) (d) the sewage discharge pipeline of a ship fitted with a standard discharge connection contrary to regulation 7 commits an offence and is be liable, upon conviction, to a fine of not less than the equivalent in Tanzania Shillings of United States Dollars one thousand or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both.
General penalty 23.
Where a person commits an offence for which no specific penalty is provided, on conviction shall under these Regulations, be liable to a fine of not less than the equivalent in Tanzania Shillings of United States Dollars one thousand or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both.
PART VII GENERAL PROVISIONS Complaints handling GN.
No.
338 of 2018 24.
A person who is aggrieved by the decision made under these Regulations may lodge complaint to the Corporation, in accordance with the Tanzania Shipping Agencies (Complaints Handling) Regulations.
Evaluation and reporting 25.-(1) The Registrar shall (a) carry out an evaluation of the regulatory provision contained in these Regulations (b) prepare a report of the evaluation process setting out the conclusions of the review and (c) submit the report to the Minister.
(2) The first report shall be submitted to the Minister within five years from the date of publication of these Regulations.
(3) Subsequent reports shall be submitted at intervals not exceeding five years.
Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 18 (4) The report under this regulation shall, in particular (a) set out the objectives intended to be achieved by the regulatory provision referred to in subregulation (1)(a) (b) assess the extent to which those objectives are achieved and (c) assess whether those objectives remain appropriate, and if so, assess the extent to which they could be achieved with a system that imposes less regulation.
Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 19 THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT TANZANIA SHIPPING AGENCIES CORPORATION TASAC  FIRST SCHEDULE  (Made under regulation 5(1)(iii)) STANDARDS FOR THE RATE OF DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE FROM SHIPS The recommended Standards are made in accordance with IMO resolution MEPC.157(55) adopted on 13th October, 2006 as hereunder 1.0 INTRODUCTION 1.1 Regulation 5(1)(ii) and (iii) of these Regulations requires that untreated sewage, which may be discharged at more than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land, should not be discharged instantaneously but at a moderate rate of discharge when the ship is en route and proceeding at a speed not less than 4 knots.
1.2 Such a rate shall be approved by the Corporation and the standard shall provide guidance for the approval and calculation of the moderate rate of discharge which applies to the discharge of untreated sewage that has been stored in holding tanks.
1.3 These Standards do not incorporate the dilution of sewage with water or greywater into calculations of the discharge rate.
In this respect, the rate is a conservative estimate and it is recognised that discharges of sewage in accordance with these Standards will present a higher level of protection to the marine environment due to mixing prior to the actual discharge in addition to the mixing action of the ships wake.
2.0 DEFINITIONS 2.1.
Swept volume means ship breadth x draft x distance travelled.
Untreated sewage means sewage that has not been (a) treated by a type approved sewage treatment plant or (b) comminuted and disinfected.
3.0 DISCHARGE RATE 3.1.
The maximum permissible discharge rate is 1/200,000 (or one 200,000th part) of swept volume as follows DRmax  0.00926 V D B Where DRmax is maximum permissible discharge rate (m3 /h) V is ships average speed (knots) over the period Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 20 D is Draft (m) B is Breadth (m) 3.2.
The maximum permissible discharge rate specified in 3.1 refers to the average rate as calculated over any 24-hour period, or the period of discharge if that is less, and may be exceeded by no more that 20 when measured on an hourly basis.
4.0 APPROVAL OF RATE BY THE CORPORATION 4.1.
The Corporation shall approve the rate of discharge specified in 3.1 based upon the ships maximum summer draft and maximum service speed.
The attention of ship operators and personnel is drawn to the reduction in permissible rate of discharge at reduced draft and/or speed.
4.2.
Where sewage is to be discharged at a different combination of draft and speed one or more secondary discharge rates may also be approved.
Presentation may be tabular, refer to table below.
DISCHARGE RATE (m3/h) SPEED (kt) 4 6 8 10 12 DRAFT (m) 5 4.63 6.94 9.26 11.57 13.89 6 5.56 8.33 11.11 13.89 16.67 7 6.48 9.72 12.96 16.20 19.45 8 7.41 11.11 14.96 18.52 22.22 9 8.33 12.50 16.67 20.83 25.00 4.3.
For ships other than those having a high requirement for untreated sewage discharge, such as passenger ships and livestock carriers, the discharge rate criterion will generally not be exceeded at ship speed of 4 knots.
5.0 METHOD OF CALCULATION 5.1.
The calculated swept volume of the ship is to be determined for drafts up to and including the summer draft assigned in accordance with the Merchant Shipping (Load Line) Regulations, GN.
No.
63 of 2019.
5.2.
Where a ship is to discharge sewage from a holding tank using a pump calibrated at a fixed rate, the pump can either be calibrated (a) at the rate permitted at 4 knots or (b) for a specific minimum ships speed in excess of 4 knots.
5.3.
Where the intended actual discharge rate exceeds that permissible at 4 knots, the actual discharge rate may need to be reduced or the speed increased.
The rate and speed is to be detailed in the approval issued by the Corporation.
6.0 COMPLIANCE WITH THE RATE 6.1.
Before undertaking a sewage discharge in accordance with this Standard, the crew member responsible for sewage operations shall ensure that the ship is en route, is more than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land and the navigation speed is consistent with the discharge rate that has been approved by the Corporation.
Ships with high discharge requirements are encouraged to keep notes of calculations of the actual discharges to demonstrate compliance with the approved rate.
Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 21 THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT TANZANIA SHIPPING AGENCIES CORPORATION TASAC  SECOND SCHEDULE  (Made under regulation 7(1))  STANDARD DIMENSIONS OF FLANGES FOR DISCHARGE CONNECTIONS Description Dimension Outside diametre 210 millimetres Inner diametre According to pipe outside diameter Bolt circle diametre 170 millimetres Slots in flange 4 holes, 18 millimetres in diametre, equidistantly placed on a bolt circle of the above diameter, slotted to the flange periphery.
The slot width to be 18 millimetres Flange thickness 16 millimetres Bolts and nuts quantity and diametre 4 pieces, each of 16 millimetres in diametre and of suitable length The flange is designed to accept pipes up to a maximum internal diameter of 100 millimetres and shall be of steel or other equivalent material having a flat face.
This flange, together with a suitable gasket, shall be suitable for a service pressure of 600 kilopascal.
For a ship having moulded depth of 5 metres and less, the inner diameter of the discharge connection maybe 38 millimetres.
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT TANZANIA SHIPPING AGENCIES CORPORATION Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 22 TASAC  THIRD SCHEDULE  (Made under regulation 12(1)) SEWAGE POLLUTION PREVENTION CERTIFICATE Issued under regulation 12 (1) under the authority of the Government of .................................................................................................................
(full designation of the country) by..............................................................................................................
(full designation of the competent person or organization authorized under the provisions of the Convention) Particulars of Ship New passenger ship Existing passenger ship Ship other than a passenger ship Name of Ship .......................................................................................
Distinctive Number or Letters .......................................................................................
Port of Registry .......................................................................................
Gross Tonnage .......................................................................................
Number of Persons which the Ship is Certified to Carry .......................................................................................
Imo Number .......................................................................................
THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT 1.
That the ship is equipped with a sewage treatment plant/comminuter/holding tank and a discharge pipeline in compliance with these Regulations as follows 1.1.
Description of the sewage treatment plant 1.2.
Type of sewage treatment plant ................................................
1.3.
Name of manufacturer...............................................................
1.4.
The sewage treatment plant is certified by the Corporation to meet the effluent standards as provided for in (a) resolution MEPC.2(VI) on Recommendation on International Effluent Standards and Guidelines for Performance Tests for Sewage Treatment Plants, 1976 (b) resolution MEPC.159(55) on revised guidelines on implementation of effluent Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 23 Standards and Guidelines for Performance Tests for Sewage Treatment Plants, 2006 and (c) resolution MEPC.227(64) on 2012 Guidelines on implementation of effluent standards and performance test for sewage treatment plants.
Delete as appropriate 1.5.
Description of comminuter Type of comminuter...................................................................
Name of manufacturer ...............................................................
Standard of sewage after disinfection .......................................
1.6.
Total capacity of the holding tank..............................................m3 Location..................................................................................
1.7.
A pipeline for the discharge of sewage to a reception facility, fitted with a standard shore connection.
That the ship has been surveyed in accordance with regulation 9 of these Regulation.
That the survey shows that the structure, equipment, systems, fittings, arrangements and material of the ship and the condition thereof are in all respects satisfactory and that the ship complies with the applicable requirements of these Regulation.
This Certificate is valid until....................................................................................
subject to surveys in accordance with regulation 9 of these Regulation.
Completion date of survey on which this Certificate is based .....................................................................
(dd/mm/yyyy issued) at......................................................................
(Place of issue of Certificate) ........................
.
(Date of issue) (Signature of authorized official issuing the Certificate) (Seal or stamp of the authority, as appropriate) Endorsement to extend the Certificate if valid for less than 5 years The ship complies with the relevant provisions of these Regulations, and this Certificate shall, be accepted as valid until ..
(dd/mm/yyyy) ...............................................
(Signature of authorized official) Place ....................................................................
Date......................................................................
(Seal or stamp of the authority, as appropriate) Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 24 Endorsement where the renewal survey has been completed and regulation 9 of these Regulation applies The ship complies with the relevant provisions these Regulations and this Certificate shall, in accordance, be accepted as valid until ..
(dd/mm/yyyy) ...............................................
(Signature of authorized official) ..
Place ....................................................................
Date......................................................................
(Seal or stamp of the authority, as appropriate) Endorsement to extend the validity of the Certificate until reaching the port of survey or for a period of grace This Certificate shall be accepted as valid until ..
(dd/mm/yyyy) ...............................................
(Signature of authorized official)  Delete as appropriate Place ....................................................................
Date......................................................................
(Seal or stamp of the authority, as appropriate) Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 25 THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT TANZANIA SHIPPING AGENCIES CORPORATION TASAC  FOURTH SCHEDULE  (Made under regulation 12(2)) SEWAGE POLLUTION PREVENTION EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE FOR UNMANNED NON-SELF-PROPELLED BARGES Issued under regulation 12 (1) under the authority of the Government of  (full designation of the country) by  (full designation of the competent person or organization authorized under the provisions of the Convention) Particulars of Ship ..
Name of Ship ..
Distinctive Number or Letters ..
Port of Registry ..
Gross Tonnage ..
THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT 1.
The Unmanned Non-Self-Propelled barge has been surveyed in accordance these Regulation Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution By Sewage From Ships) Regulations, GN.
No.
371 (Contd) 26 2.
That the survey shows that the Unmanned Non-Self-Propelled barge (a) is not propelled by mechanical means (b) has neither persons nor living animals on board (c) is not used for holding sewage during transport and (d) has no arrangements that could produce sewage as defined in these Regulation and 3.
That the Unmanned Non-Self-Propelled barge is exempted, under these Regulation, from the certification and related survey requirements of these Regulations.
This Certificate is valid until  (dd/mm/yyyy) subject to the exemption conditions being maintained.
Completion date of the survey on which this Certificate is based  (dd/mm/yyyy) Issued at  (place of issue of Certificate) ....................................................
............................................................
(date of issue) (dd/mm/yyyy) (signature of duly authorized official issuing the Certificate) (seal or stamp of the authority, as appropriate) Dodoma MAKAME M MBARAWA 3rd May, 2024 Minister for Transport